MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD MAY 4, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT:        Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton ( remotely),
                                                       Jay Thomas,   Matt Quinney, Corbin England,
                Ammon Allen, Pamela Bloom


STAFF:          Larry Gardner, Scott Langford, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis, Mayor Burton, Brian
                Berndt, Nathan Nelson, Paul Brockbank, Ray McCandless

OTHERS:         Ty McCutcheon, Elizabeth Cole, Daniel Woodbury, Carmen Echeverry, Clara Caroson,
                Jodi Hoffman, Travis Rees, Edward Kaihe, Eugene Stoyanov



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions were briefly answered. Duncan Murray provided training on the Four Principles of Being a
Good Planning Commissioner.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 03 p. m.

1.     Consent Items
       Approve      Minutes   from April 20, 2021


MOTION:        Jay Thomas moved to approve the minutes from April 20, 2021 as listed in the
               packet. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.     Golden Imperio; Continued from 4- 20- 21; 7046 South Redwood Road# C; Conditional
       Use Permit for a Reception/ Event Center; Golden Imperio, LLC/ Carmen Echeverry
        applicant) [#   23817;   parcel 21- 27- 127- 027]


Mark Forsythe said there was some question at the previous meeting regarding the hours of operation
and impacts to the residential area. The Commission asked the applicant to present a better security
plan to mitigate those impacts. The applicant and the Deputy Police Chief met with staff, which
resulted in a plan where the business owner will hire two West Jordan police officers with one inside
of the building and one patrolling outside. The applicant is also going to add security cameras on each
wall inside of the building and outside at the main entrance and the rear entrance.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for Golden
Imperio, located at 7046 South Redwood Road# C in an SC- 2 Zone, provided that all conditions of
approval listed below can be fully adhered to at all times.

1.     The business shall continuously meet all applicable City, County and State codes and
       ordinances.

2.     The business activities shall be consistent with the submitted application, letter of intent and
       site plan.

3.     The business shall not operate between the hours of 10: 00 PM and 7: 00 AM.
4.     Management of the reception center, the lessee or other designated party shall be on site at all
       timesduring business hours in order to monitor alcohol consumption, noise, crowd control,
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 2



         parking lot safety and security, and other health and safety issues. Such personnel shall be
         clearly identified by uniform or similar identification.
5.       The reception center owner shall hire at least 2 security officers from the West Jordan Police
         Department for all events. Additional security officers shall be hired as deemed necessary on a
         case-by-case basis as recommended by the hired security officers on site.
6.       All reception center activities shall be contained entirely indoors and are not allowed outside.
7.       Patrons shall not be allowed to enter or exit through the doors on the west side of the building.
8.       Patrons shall not be permitted to loiter within the parking lot that is directly north of the
         shopping center building. This parking lot shall be patrolled by an employed security officer.
9.       All music and loudspeakers shall be fully contained inside the reception center.
10.      The reception center owner, manager, the lessee, or other designated party shall monitor all
         alcohol consumption            at each event, where served, and make certain that it is done in a manner
         that will prevent over- consumption, prevent underage drinking, and will not allow alcohol
         consumption in the parking lot area.
11.      The reception center shall continuously meet all Health Department regulations for the catering
         of food at all events where food is served.
12.      The applicant shall continuously adhere to the Salt Lake Valley Health Department health
         regulation#        21 "
                           Community Noise Pollution Control."
13.      Obtain     Building Permit from the West Jordan Building & Safety Department prior to
                     a


         initiating any construction work, interior or exterior.
14.      Approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or Engineering approval.
15.      A permit shall be obtained for any new exterior signage.
16.      The business shall adhere to all sign requirements,          as set forth in Section 13- 17 and Title 12 of
         the West Jordan Municipal Code.
17.      The Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/ or revocation as per the 2009 West Jordan

         City Code Section 13- 7E- 10.

Mark Forsythe indicated that the applicant has been working with the building department for
renovation     and   sign    permits.




Scott Langford said the City Attorney indicated to him that condition# 5 should be less specific by not
requiring the police officers to be from West Jordan.

MOTION:              Pamela Bloom moved to allow the applicant to answer some questions. The motion

                     was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.

Pamela Bloom explained that the biggest concerns with the application deal with past history. She
asked how they are going to mitigate the impacts in order to have later hours.

Carmen Echeverry, applicant, responded in Spanish with Clara Caroson, Heber City, serving as
interpreter.



Ms. Echeverry said that police officers will be hired to prevent incidents from the past.

Pamela Bloom wanted to allow the applicant the chance for a thriving business and to provide
                     to get a sense of the commitment                         of the
protection     and                                          they are asking            applicant.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 3



Kent Shelton asked the applicant if they can work within the 10: 00 p. m. closing time and still maintain
a viable business.


Carmen Echeverry said closing at 10: 00 would be a problem. They follow the schedule requested by
the customer, usually with dinner at 6 p. m., a program, dancing and music that plays for 3- 4 hours,
drinks, etc. and stopping the party at 12: 00 a. m.

Trish Hatch asked for clarification that 10: 00 p. m. does not work for her business and it is too soon.

The response was that was a correct statement.


Kent Shelton said the conditions of approval impose a 10 p. m. closing time, which does not work for
this business.


Trish Hatch said this item was continued last time because of the discussion regarding closing time and
trying to accommodate the business and the residents as well. Hours of operation are up for debate and
if there are adequate security measures in place to allow for extended hours. She asked the applicant
what can be done to alleviate people who are not attending the party from causing trouble in the
parking lot.

Carmen Echeverry said that in addition to the police officers she will hire people to help with parking
lot control, so they don' t negatively impact the neighboring businesses.

Matt Quinney felt that the recommended conditions are imposing different rules on this business than
other businesses. The bar in this same shopping center does not have security guards in the parking lot.
It is irrelevant to him that the reception center could have more people at a given event. A new set of
rules should not be imposed just because this applicant wants to move to a more advantageous
location. He felt that this applicant is committed to West Jordan. He didn' t expect people to do
anything else in the parking lot but to get in their cars and leave, the same as with the neighboring bar
or restaurants.




Jay Thomas said he wanted to hear from the police department of what incidents they have been called
out to at the other location.


Deputy Chief Travis Rees said the problems with receptions centers are that people do hang out in the
parking lots and they are drinking in the parking lot. Bars do a better job of enforcing their clientele.
Reception centers will have a different group of people each event who aren' t familiar with the rules.
Some of the call types they get are fights, stabbings, and noise complaints. He said they get noise
complaints from the current location, which isn' t nearly as close to residential as the proposed location.

Matt Quinney thought that the complaints were with PX Palace and not with Golden Imperio.

Deputy Chief Rees said they are both reception centers with alcohol and those are the kinds of
problems they have. He said that this owner is trying to do what they can to mitigate the problems and
hiring police officers will be huge. There is currently a big demand for police services at these centers.
Responding to Jay Thomas' question about recommended hours of operation, he said that he
understood   the   dilemma with balancing   event   hours and protecting   the residential   area.   If he were
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 4



running a reception center, he would not choose a location near residential, but the business owner is
putting the protocol in place and with the police officers on site it should solve the problem.

Jay Thomas asked for his opinion on a closing time later than 10: 00 p.m.

Deputy Chief Rees said if he lived in that neighborhood, he wouldn' t want that business there.

Corbin England said this business owner is splitting away from the current business that has a bad
history of incidents. He agreed that police officers need to be on site. He said that typically they
wouldn' t be discussing hours, but this business model conflicts with the noise ordinance with loud
activities. If they extend it to 11: 00 p.m. they could get residents calling in. Also, the number of people
attending the events adds to it. Bars are good at policing and will cut people off according to policies
and they have a returning clientele. Reception centers have a different group of people every week. He
was inclined to be even stricter than he was at the previous meeting and accept the condition of
approval to mirror the noise ordinance.



Pamela Bloom said she works these types of events all over the valley and the majority are perfectly
fine. The applicant is installing noise buffers on the walls and hiring police officers to monitor the
parking lot. She did not want to punish a business for potential acts when they already have things in
place to mitigate the detriments and are doing all they can so their business can thrive. These events
happen every single day all over the valley and she can see no reason to impose something different for
this business.


Matt Quinney asked staff for clarification on the noise ordinance and if the buffer area for this business
was far enough away.

Corbin England read from the Salt Lake County noise ordinance that said, in general, the noise
regulation prohibits loud noise at night between the hours of 10 p. m. and 7 a.m. It also sets limits for
extremely loud noise during daytime hours. He said there are no buffers, thresholds, or decibels. It is
subjective.




Mark Forsythe said that the Health Department has inspectors who can assess the noise to see if it
exceeds the levels set by the County.

Trish Hatch said this location is next to residential and not in a downtown location surrounded by
businesses.


Pamela Bloom said that she has worked several events are scattered throughout       neighborhoods      with
several in Bountiful and Utah County.

MOTION:          Corbin England moved based on the information         and findings   set forth in this staff
                 report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                 Conditional     Use Permit for Golden Imperio, located at 7046 South Redwood Road
                  C in an SC- 2 zone, with the conditions of approval 1 through 17 as listed in the
                 staff report,   changing:
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 5



                 5.      The reception center owner shall hire two police officers for all events.
                       Additional security officers shall be hired as deemed necessary on a case-
                       by- case basis as recommended by the hired police officers on site.
                 The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 4- 3 in favor with
                 Commissioners Quinney, Bloom, and Allen casting the negative votes.

Ammon Allen said if the city does not want this type of use near residential areas, then perhaps staff
should consider removing it from the SC- 2 zoning district.


3.       By- laws; Continued from 4- 20- 21; Review and possible amendments to the West Jordan
         Planning Commission By- laws, including provisions for electronic meetings/ voting

Duncan Murray said the changes address electronic participation in meetings and an update to reflect
the current form of government.


MOTION:          Corbin England moved to approve the West Jordan Planning Commission By-
                 Laws and Rules of Procedure as written in the staff report. The motion was
                 seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.


4.       Seek Your Physique; 6582 South Airport Road; Conditional Use Permit for Personal
         Instruction Service; M- 1 Zone; Seek Your Physique/ Edward Kaihe ( applicant) I# 23851;
         parcel 21- 19- 100- 030]


Edward Kaihe, applicant, said he is a coach for bodybuilders. He has had a home-based business doing
nutrition plans and meal prep and training in local gyms. This location will provide a place for one-on-
one training that his clients need to become professional bodybuilders and athletes.

Mark Forsythe gave an overview of the application for a fitness training center for athletes. Available
hours are 24/ 7, but most appointments are scheduled on an induvial basis, usually at night when the
students have time to train after work. There will be between six and 10 people on site at any given
time. This use shouldn' t be impactful to the surrounding businesses. The amount of parking is not a
concern; however, it is located on the south side of the building and the front entrance to the business
is on the north side. To make it safer and more convenient for the clients, ten spaces in front of the
main entrance along with a 6- foot non-parking buffer as a safe space for pedestrians were added. Since
these clients are all adults, the 6- foot buffer is sufficient to meet the requirement for a pick-up and drop
off area. Lighting is provided, and there should be no traffic impacts.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for Seek Your
Physique, located at 6582 South Airport Road in an M- 1 zoning district, with the conditions of approval
listed below:


1.       The business   shall meet   all applicable   Zoning, Building & Safety, Engineering and Fire
         Departments' requirements.
2.       A 6- foot- wide loading area   and   a minimum    of   10 parking   stalls (   9'   x   18')   shall be striped

         directly in front of the lease space for the business.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 6



3.       Wall lighting along the front façade of the lease space shall be properly maintained to provide
         full lighting in this area at night.
4.       Obtain approval of a Building Permit for the interior renovation of the lease space from the
         West Jordan Building &         Safety Department.
5.       Obtain and maintain a valid West Jordan Business License.
6.       Approval of a Conditional Use shall become null and void upon twelve ( 12) months, unless a
         building permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period and is thereafter
         diligently pursued to completion, or unless a certificate of occupancy is issued and a use
         commenced within that period.
7.       The Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/ or revocation, in accordance with Section
         13- 7E- 10 of the West Jordan Municipal Code.


Jay Thomas asked where ADA parking is located.

Mark Forsythe said all ADA parking is on the south side of the building.

Matt Quinney asked if every other space in the building will need to provide parking spaces on the
north, because he was concerned that there wasn' t enough space.


Mark Forsythe said taking away the six- foot buffer and the 18- foot parking stall length there is still 82
feet between the building to the north and where the parking stall ends. The reason this business is
required to add parking is that it does not have access to the south parking lot.

MOTION:          Matt Quinney moved to allow the applicant to speak about the condition for added
                 parking     stalls.


Edward Kaihe confirmed that there is a lot of distance between the parking spaces and the north
building. He and his trainers don' t mind parking in the back, but the spaces will be good for his clients.
Most of the clients will attend between 5 - 10 p. m. so there won' t be a lot of traffic. He didn' t mind that
conditions   of approval.




Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Eugene Stoyanov, subject property owner, said he looks forward to having this applicant as a tenant
and he is willing to do whatever is required to take care of this client.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:          Pamela Bloom moved, based on the positive fmdings set forth in the staff report
                 and upon the information and explanations received today, to approve the
                 Conditional      Use Permit for Seek Your Physique,    located at 6582 South Airport
                 Road in an M- 1 zoning district, with the conditions of approval 1 through 7 as
                 listed in the staff report, amending:
                 2.      A 6- foot- wide loading area and a minimum of 10 parking stalls ( 9' x 18')
                          and one ADA stall shall be striped directly in front of the lease space for the
                            business.

                 The   motion     was seconded    by Jay Thomas   and passed   7- 0 in favor.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page   7




Kent Shelton was opposed to the condition for an ADA stall.



5.         RLW Expansion Rezone; 9000 South Mountain View Corridor; Future Land Use Map
           Amendment for approximately 4. 5 acres from Regional Commercial to Light Industrial
           and Rezone from P- C ( Planned Community) Zone to M- 1 ( Light Manufacturing) Zone;
           Wadsworth     Dannon      Way, LLC/ Elizabeth   Cole ( applicant) [# 23679, 23678; parcel 26- 02-
           400- 069]



Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group, said this amendment would allow RLW
Construction to expand the rear portion of the existing property and remain at their current location.
The company has a thriving business and has been highly successful. The expansion area would be for
preassembly, prefabrication and staging for some of their projects. They believe strongly that it is a
very compatible use for the area. There would be no view of the industrial use from the public
roadway, and it is only accessible from Dannon Way.

Daniel Woodbury, representing Woodbury Corporation owner of the adjoining Jordan Star property,
said the proposal would benefit their property as well. The Jordan Star property dimensions are narrow
and deep. Selling this property to Wadsworth will provide a tighter dimension that will facilitate a
wider variety of commercial uses in the future. Although he cannot speak to specific future plans for
their property, it will likely include retail or professional office and services. Sale of the property to
Wadsworth will only have positive impacts for them.

Brian Berndt showed some photos of the property that give a visual context from different locations.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to approve the Future Land Use Map Amendment and Rezone for RLW( Ralph L. Wadsworth
Construction     Co.)   expansion located at 90th South and Mountain    View Corridor/ 5892 West Dannon

Way.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:            Corbin England moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
                   to approve the Future Land Use Map Amendment from Regional Commercial to
                   Light Industrial and Rezone from P- C ( Planned Community) Zone to M- 1 ( Light
                   Manufacturing) Zone for the RLW expansion located at 90th South and Mountain
                   View Corridor/ 5892 West Dannon Way. The motion was seconded by Kent
                   Shelton and passed 7- 0 in favor.




6.         Text Amendment—           Public Noticing; Amend the 2009 City Code, Sections Affecting Public
           Notice Requirements;        amendments would require the use of the state notice website and
           would not require using newspaper notice; City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan
            applicant) (#   240011
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 8




Duncan Murray said that Senate Bill 201 no longer makes it a requirement to use the newspaper for
public noticing and ensures that state and city noticing websites are used.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
                    Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
                    Amend the 2009 City Code, Sections Affecting Public Notice Requirements;
                    amendments      would   require   the use of the state notice website   and would   not

                    require using newspaper notice; City-wide applicability; City of West Jordan
                     applicant).
                                   The motion was seconded by Kent Shelton and passed 7- 0 in favor.


7.         Text Amendment— Accessory           Dwelling Units; Amend the 2009 City Code adding
           Accessory Dwelling Units to all R- 1 Single-family Residential Zones; city-wide
           applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [#       19432]



Larry Gardner said House Bill 82 was signed into law to go into effect in October. This law makes it
possible for a primary dwelling occupied by the owner on record to have an accessory dwelling unit.
The city will have no regulations as far as size, location, etc. The city does not have to allow an
addition to a home as an ADU. This code will allow for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units to be
permitted in R- 1, P- C, PRD, and in the single-family WSPA zones. Earlier in the year the City Council
and Planning Commission discussed regulations that the law gives cities discretion on. At that
workshop it was decided that the city also wanted to allow External Accessory Dwelling Units. The
proposed ordinance would allow them in certain zoning districts. He reviewed the list of requirements
for all ADUs and EADUs. He asked the Commissioners if they had any other suggestions for the
setback requirements other than what is listed, such as needing to meet the same setbacks as the
primary dwelling. Staff felt that the definitions need to be updated to go along with the ordinance and
to be consistent with state law. Because this law does not go into effect until October, he recommended
that they hold the public hearing tonight and then continue the meeting until the definitions can be
created and brought back to them as part of the ordinance.


Matt Quinney didn' t have an issue with the proposed setbacks.

After a discussion was held, there were questions that needed clarification: Can there be more than one
EADU per property as long as setbacks can be met; Can a property have an IADU and an EADU; If
they make a condition that there can' t be an EADU if there is already an IADU, what happens if the
EADU is built first, then state law says they have to allow the IADU; There was a questions about the
zones    that one   is allowed in— several felt that as long as the setbacks are met it didn' t matter what the
underlying    zone was.


Larry Gardner recommended that only one EADU is allowed on a property in order to protect the
integrity of single- family neighborhoods. These questions will be reviewed and answered at the next
meeting.
Planning& Zoning Commission        Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 9



Trish Hatch commended          staff for their work on the ordinance.


There was a discussion regarding building materials. The survey at the workshop for this topic had a
split opinion. Larry Gardner recommended they put it in the ordinance as a point of conversation.

Matt Quinney recommended that the Design Review Committee review each of the EADUs for design.
Also, he didn' t think that they should prohibit any kinds of materials outright if there is a proven
technique that is acceptable.


Larry Gardner said staff will do some research to see if any materials could be required or prohibited.

Trish opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


MOTION:           Corbin England moved to continue the Text Amendment regarding Accessory
                  Dwelling Units to the May 18, 2021 meeting. The motion was seconded by Pamela
                  and passed 7- 0 in favor.




8.       Text Amendment— PCH Zone; Amend the 2009 City Code adding 13- 5 Article L
          Planned    Community Hillside ( PCH)          Zone";    City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan
          applicant) [#   24000]


Larry Gardner said the Commission had seen different versions of this ordinance in the past. Because
of the geography on the Wood Ranch property, the zoning will no longer be form- based but it will
allow a lot of latitude for the developer due to the hillside. This project specific ordinance. The bulk of
the development will be guided by a master development agreement. Jodi Hoffman, outside legal
counsel, wrote the PCH Ordinance and was in attendance. Planning Staff agrees with and
recommended       approval.




Scott Langford said a lot of work had been done on this ordinance since the last time they reviewed it
in January. The Council' s subcommittee on land use recommended that the Daybreak Communities
design standards be placed in this document          in a simplified   version, which is the main difference.   A
great deal of flexibility and discretion has been extended to Daybreak Communities.

Proposed definitions were reviewed. Clarification was given on the following:

         Building pad and footprint as it might relate to shared driveways. This code has a variety of
         single- family products.

         Circulator alleys will be concrete because they get road funds from the State. The HOA will
         provide maintenance for them, but the City will be a pass through for funds to help with long-
         term   maintenance.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 10




          Community Structure Plan. This will show the locations of place types, roads, trails,
          infrastructure, drainage corridors and open space. This information can be used in a master
          development agreement.


          Many definitions of grade have been added. There will be a lot of grade moved around and
          some of the homes will be built into the hillside. A good development will step the hillside to
          move the height with the contours of the existing or approved grade. These definitions can also
          be used for other areas of the city.

          Transfer of Development Right was explained by Jodi Hoffman. This gives flexibility in how
          the place types will be developed since the developer doesn' t know the sequence at this early
          stage. For this project, there will be 3068 residential dwelling units along with some
          commercial    units.    When developed,   25% of the land mass will be open space. A formula will

          be built into the code for areas that are TDR open space and depending on the density in the
          sub- area plan, that is the number of acres of open space that need to be dedicated with the
          subarea   plan.




          Business Parkway and Town Center place types have been removed from this code since this
          development is smaller than Daybreak South Jordan. The use table has not changed, and an
          MDA is still required. The ordinance governs the open space requirement, and the MDA will
          list the specifics. Open space must be preserved in perpetuity. Lot, bulk, and use tables will be
          included. Hillside development regulations will help to develop a good product. Staff
          recommended that buildings have four-sided architecture.


          Exemptions built into the PCH ordinance. The purpose of the Cap and Grade ordinance was to
          help control where multi- family is located. This code will be exempt and will control where the
          building types are located through an MDA based on percentage. The Hillside Development
          Ordinance is also exempt because the requirements        of that ordinance will come prior to the
          subdivision at entitlement and an extensive geologic survey has taken place.

          There was a discussion on where liability will lie if there is a landslide or similar occurrence.
          At the applicant' s expense, an outside consultant was hired and initial comments on the first
          phase of the site have been put into a report. They will make certain that everyone is reviewing
          the collapsibility and expandability and slide potential of the soils. There is also a construction
          quality assurance plan that will dictate how grading is done and how the geotechnical scientists
          can evaluate the work of the grading contractors. As part of the MDA discussions, there has
          been talk of an insurance fund program for individual homeowners who have subsidence issues
          related to their house. A lot of emphasis is being put on doing it right to begin with, so the
          insurance won' t be needed.


          Road Standards. The proposed standards are important to Daybreak because of their preferred

          community type, which city road standards will not allow. While the Engineering department
          prefers the city' s standards, they will accept these.

Trish Hatch    opened       the public   hearing.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 4, 2021
Page 11




Ty McCutcheon, Daybreak Communities, said they had the opportunity last week to review the
proposed draft. They have been working since then to look at the added provisions, many of which
were taken from their development standards. The idea is to create a zone that would enable the
opportunity to develop a unique site. They want to make sure that the zone that is ultimately adopted
by the city and applied to the Wood Ranch property will accommodate that outcome. They will
probably want to propose some modifications and recommendations before adoption. The 600- acre
Wood Ranch property represents a unique opportunity for them to use what they have learned over the
years in developing great neighborhoods into the concepts for this master plan. This development will
not have a downtown core. They will continue the review and provide comments to staff.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Corbin England and Jay Thomas wondered if the Commission needed more time to allow the applicant
to finish their review and bring forward recommendations.

Matt Quinney said any changes recommended by the applicant are still going to be reviewed by the
City Council. He felt that the Commission needs to make a recommendation on what has been put
forth by staff and let the City Council digest any comments or changes.

MOTION:
                  Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to City Council to
                  Amend the 2009 City Code adding 13- 5 Article L " Planned    Community Hillside
                   PCH) Zone";  City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant). The
                  motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.



Regarding tonight' s training, Commissioner Hatch suggested that staff choose a meeting to dissect
using the rules presented and to provide feedback in a training. She also asked if there is a dress code
for the Commission. Mayor Burton recommended professional dress.

MOTION:           Pamela Bloom moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 7: 57 p. m.

                                           104         RISH HATCH
                                                                                                 y..   ;.;




                                                      Chair
ATTEST:
                                       t                                                4                    4.


in                      4                                                           A   .   4.




JU   E DAVIS
                        1)                                                                                   4.
                                                                                                                  L.




Executive   Assistant
                                                                                            r7
Community Development Department

                    I5                      4"
Approved this               day of                1                     2021
4 Principles of Being a Good Planning Commissioner


       Apply good parliamentary procedure/ group decision- making skills
           o
               Know the rules ( By- laws and WJC Code Title 2, Chapters 1 and 2)
           o
               Attend regularly and come to the meeting prepared
           o
               Support the Chair; follow his/ her lead during meetings
           o   Do not " talk over"   other people



       Be neutral

           o
               Remember due process( fair notice and hearing)
           o
               Just apply the law ( state statute, city code, and other land use regulations)
           o   Should not matter" who you know" and what is logical


       Avoid the appearance of impropriety
           o
               Avoid discriminatory/ defamatory language
           o   Avoid   poor   body language (   avoid " eye- rolling",   etc.)

           o
               Avoid whispering during a Planning Commission Meeting

       Use limited discretion appropriately
           o   For all types of applications:

                        Apply criteria and findings appropriately( with a motion to deny or approve)
           o   For conditional use permit applications ( see Utah Code Section 10- 9a- 507):
                        Review    data

                        Review reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
                        Propose reasonably related conditions to mitigate ( not necessarily eliminate)
                        the anticipated   detrimental     effects
