MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD DECEMBER 7, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT:
                  Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
                  and Pamela Bloom.


STAFF:            Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Mark Forsythe, Duncan Murray, Julie Davis, Paul
                  Brockbank


OTHERS:           Ian Spangenberg



The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was briefly reviewed. Updates on
city projects were given.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.     Approve Minutes from November 17, 2021


MOTION:           Matt Quinney moved to approve the minutes from November 17, 2021. The motion
                  was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.     UCA Bingham Head Start; 3000 West Haun Drive; Conditional Use Permit for Personal
       Instruction Services; M- 1 Zone; Utah Community Action/ Ian Spangenberg ( applicant)
        1# 25772; parcel 21- 33- 352- 009]


Ian Spangenberg, applicant, said the conditional use permit is required to operate a Head Start school.
They plan to have four classrooms. He reviewed the number and ages of students. Two playgrounds
will be installed and completely fenced within the property. This site is ideal for safe drop- off of
students with a pull-through design. The building is open and well-lit.

Mark Forsythe explained that this use could fall under the preschool use, which is not allowed in M- 1
zones, and personal instruction services, which is conditional. Personal instruction covers any use with
instructional classes such as, preschools, dance studios, martial arts studios, etc. The Zoning
Administrator provided guidance in this matter and determined that a preschool could be considered
under the umbrella of personal instruction services. The site is surrounded by single- family residential
and manufacturing uses. This use should not impact the surrounding properties. However, the existing
businesses may impact this use with noise and dust, specifically from the adjacent metal fabrication
business. Staff asked the applicant to monitor the situation to make sure that those impacts will not
affect the children. There will be some low traffic and parking impacts. The applicant agreed to stagger
class times by 15 minutes to allow for less congestion at drop off and pick up times. At a worst-case
scenario there could be 17 cars per 15- minute period. There are 22 parking spaces in the front parking
area. Most of the 20 full- time employees will park in the rear. That parking area has to be striped to
create at least 17 parking stalls to meet the requirement. An additional ADA parking space is needed,
which can be converted from a regular space. There will be a paved walkway between the building and
the playground.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
December 7, 2021
Page 2




Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for UCA
Bingham Head Start, located at 3000 West Haun Drive in an M- 1 zone, with the Conditions of
Approval listed below.


Conditions of Approval
1.
         The use shall be substantially consistent with the submitted application, letter of intent and
         plans. Deviations from these documents must be reviewed by the West Jordan Planning&
         Zoning Department.
2.
         The paved area directly north of the building shall be striped with a minimum of 17 parking
         spaces in the configuration shown on the diagram provided in Exhibit D of the staff report.
         Deviations from this plan must be approved by the West Jordan Traffic Engineer, the West
         Jordan Fire Marshall, the West Jordan Engineering Department and the West Jordan Planning
              Zoning Department.
3.
         Convert the 2 parking spaces adjacent to the existing handicap space to a handicap space and
         loading area as shown on the diagram provided in Exhibit D of the staff report.
4.
         Install a van-accessible handicap parking sign and a standard handicap parking sign in front of
         the handicap stalls as shown on the diagram provided in Exhibit D of the staff report.
5.
         A minimum of 17 parking spaces within the front parking lot shall be reserved for drop-
         off/pick- up of students and client parking only. Employees should avoid parking within the
         front parking lot to the greatest extent possible.
6.
         All playground equipment shall be fully surrounded with soft surfacing materials and
         permanent fencing.
7.       A paved walkway shall be installed to provide continuous, uninhibited access between the
         building and the playground.
8.
         The gravel area around the playground and all other undeveloped areas on the property shall be
         kept free of weeds, trash and debris.
9.       All existing landscaping shall remain intact and shall be properly maintained. Changes to the
         landscaping must be approved by the West Jordan Planning & Zoning Department.

Requirements of Approval
1.       Obtain approval      Building Permit from the West Jordan Building & Safety Department for
                                of a


         the remodel of the building and outdoor playground and pass all associated inspections.
2.       Comply with all applicable Building and Fire Codes.
3.       The Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/ or revocation as per Section 13- 7E- 10 of
         the West Jordan Municipal Code.
4.       The decision of the Planning Commission shall be final and effective 15 days from the date of
         the decision, unless an appeal is filed pursuant to Section 15- 5- 2 and Section 15- 5- 5B of the
         West Jordan Municipal Code.


Clarifications were made on the fencing. The entire rear property is fenced. The playground will
have an additional perimeter fence. Parking for the employees is accounted for in the rear and in
the front as needed.


Regarding the state of the building, Mark Forsythe said that the Building Official is looking
extensively    at   the   building permit for renovation   that   is currently   under   review.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
December   7, 2021
Page 3




Kent Shelton asked if this is the same building that was occupied by Dyno Nobel and if there are
concerns with chemical contamination from those activities.


Ian Spangenberg said the building had been 12' x 12' offices throughout. He said that the Building
Official will require installation of fire sprinklers.


A brief discussion was held regarding drop off and pick up of the children. The applicant plans to
use the existing sidewalk in front of the building. Parking stalls appear to be designed to have one-
way traffic through the parking lot, but there is currently no signage to indicate that.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Paul Brockbank, West Jordan Fire Marshal, said the building in question was the corporate office
and no chemicals were on site. Dyno Nobel was the manufacturer of the trucks that carried the
explosive materials, so there were never chemicals on site.


Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Jay Thomas asked the applicant if he anticipated needing more ADA parking.

Ian Spangenberg said that enrollment changes constantly, but that would be addressed as needed.
They are going to try to make traffic one- way to exit on the far west side for safety.

Ammon Allen encouraged the Commission to include a condition of approval that there are
entrance and exit signs to address one- way traffic for safety concerns and which may help with
traffic on 8600 South.


Other commissioners agreed. Matt Quinney wanted to make sure the applicant was okay with that
requirement.




Ian Spangenberg spoke from the audience and said that they were definitely looking at that for
safety reasons.


MOTION:           Ammon Allen moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the
                  staff report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve
                  the Conditional Use Permit for UCA Bingham Head Start, located at 3000
                  West Hann Drive in an M- 1 zone, with the Conditions of Approval listed in the
                  staff report, adding:
                  10.     Signage be added to direct traffic in on the east side and out on the west
                        side of the parking area.
                  The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.


3.       Text Amendment—
                              Pylon signs in C- G Zone; Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code
         Section 13- 17- 2 permitting Major Pylon Signs in the C- G Zone; City- wide
         applicability;   City of West Jordan ( applicant) [#   25861]
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
December    7, 2021
Page 4




    This item was pulled from the agenda by staff. No action was taken.]


MOTION:               Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6: 18 p. m.

                                                         ip
                                                         r


                                              ILlRES   HATCH




ATTEST:
                                                Chair41'                   k   „




J     IE DAVIS
Executive Assistant

Community Development Department

Approved this          a` (   day of   PeG-e l' Lt.                 2021
