     MINUTES OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
HELD APRIL 19, 2022 IN THE THOMAS M. REES JUSTICE CENTER COMMUNITY ROOM

PRESENT:         Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Ammon Allen, and George Winn.

STAFF:           Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Lisa Elgin, Mark Forsythe, Nathan Nelson, Duncan
                 Murray, Julie Davis



The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. Duncan Murray provided training on types of
Planning Commission decisions and recommendations— Administrative and Quasi- Judicial actions and
by- laws.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p.m.

1.      Consent Calendar
        Approve Minutes from April 5, 2022


MOTION:          Ammon Allen moved to approve the minutes from April 5, 2022. The motion was
                 seconded by Matt Quiney and passed 6- 0 in favor.


2.
        Welby West; 8945 South 4800 West; Future Land Use Map Amendment for 11. 54 acres
        from Neighborhood Commercial to High Density Residential and Rezone from SC-2
         Community Shopping Center) Zone and R- 1- 10D ( ZC) ( Single- family residential 10, 000
        square foot minimum lots with zoning conditions) Zone to PRD( H) (Planned Residential
        Development— High Density) Zone and Master Development Plan; CanyonStone
        CapitaUTodd      Amberry ( applicant) [#25540, 25541, 25538; parcels 27- 06- 152- 017, 022]

Greg Hughes, CanyonStone Capital, reviewed the plan. The property is currently zoned community
shopping center and single family residential. The property has remained vacant partly because UDOT
will not allow access from 9000 South. The expected demographic is young family and senior/ active
adult. Home sizes are similar to the adjacent neighborhood, but with smaller lots. The goal was to
achieve an attainable price point with economy of scale. Homes will have a two- car garage and there
will be no on- street parking, regulated with CC& R' s and an HOA that will also maintain yards and open
space. Initially 108 lots were proposed but the City Council' s land use subcommittee felt it was too
dense. After several versions and neighborhood meetings, the count was lowered to 76 lots and included
more open space and parking. Home prices had to increase because there were fewer lots to portion out
the cost of development. Results from meetings also included a border trail that increases the distance
from the existing homes, extra parking, and a left and right hand turn onto 4800 West for commuter
benefit. Mr. Hughes felt that the project met the required findings and is feasible and less impactful than
a fully developed commercial center. High density has a range of 5. 6 to 10 dwelling units per acre. With
the bonus density they are asking for 6. 6 units per acre and not the maximum allowed. He also asked
them to consider that density in R- 1 zones now comes into question with recent changes in state law that
allow for accessory dwelling units. However, the PRD zone does not allow them, so the approved
number of units would remain at that number. There are no additional utility needs or increased demands
between the proposal and the current zoning. He explained their options for utility connections and
availability. The city has to sign off that utilities   are   being addressed in a satisfactory way.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 2




Ammon Allen asked how many lots would fit on the property in an R- 1- 10 zone.

Greg Hughes said there would be around 50, but that would increase house prices even more. They feel
that this location is a good fit for the proposal that provides a good buffer and a more attainable price.


Matt Quinney asked how their prices continue to rise above the median home price for the area when he
knows someone in the area on more acreage in the $ 550,000 range.


Greg Hughes explained that the raw costs of development are reflected on the price of the finished lots.
The more homes they have the lower the home costs.

Kent Shelton commented on the statement that traffic would be higher with a commercial property, but it
is spread throughout the day instead of having pinch points with residential.

Greg Hughes said it works both ways. There may be less traffic at certain times with commercial, but
there is also less traffic during the day with residential. Their traffic impact study said with current
zoning the traffic impact is 3, 970 daily trips. It was 1, 022 trips per day with the first layout, but with 76
homes it is 808 trips per day. Drone data at school pick up and rush hour showed the largest ingress into
the school is at 8: 21 to 8: 25 a.m. and from 3: 00— 3: 20 p.m. the longest line had seven cars. The largest

stacking on 4800 West turning left at commute times between 8: 00 and 8: 30 a.m. was 14 cars that lasted
for three minutes. UDOT told them that they did not think this intersection was a congestion failure
situation, but that they could adjust the lefthand turn signal to be longer during high traffic times.

Larry Gardner added that the traffic impact study did not recommend any mitigation for traffic created
by this project. He confirmed with the city utility manager that if the applicant waits to build anything
for four months, then the new reservoir will provide adequate water supply. There is sewer capacity in
the 9000 South line, but if they choose to go through the Whispering Pines neighborhood the applicant
will have to pay for sewer upgrades as a project improvement.

Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the Master Development Plan, General Land
Use Map Amendment, and Rezone.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing and noted that emails in opposition of the request were received
from the public and would be entered into the record.


Debra Stewart, West Jordan resident, said it is important to her that her home values increase. They are
being shamed into allowing smaller lots when there is already so much high density. The current
residents who want to keep the area nice need to be considered. She said it is not fair to have high
density here and it is not what they were told when they moved to the area. The rail line is also in
operation again. Homeowners' associations can be revoked, and she thought that visitors will be parking
in the existing neighborhood if they only have two parking spaces. Home values will be lowered, and
congestion will increase.


Aaron Baugh, West Jordan resident, said that traffic is a concern from an emergency vehicle perspective
with the alleyways. There is already low income, high density across the street and high- density
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 3


apartments on 9000 South. He loves West Jordan, but standards need to be maintained. He was glad to
see the unit count lowered and the addition of a trail, but he thought they could do better. Visitors will be
parking on Red Pine or at the library, which could be unsafe if they don' t cross 4800 West at the
crosswalk.




Spencer Riehl, Taylorsville resident and middle school teacher in West Jordan, was disheartened when
people complain about traffic or utilities. He was forced from West Jordan when he couldn' t find a place
to live. It is sad to see how home prices have to increase or to hear the people who live in the area think
they have the right to all of the property around them and who get up the ladder and then pull up the
ladder on others who are trying. There is a housing crisis, so he is in favor of more housing for more
people.




Chris Hupp, West Jordan resident, said that a commercial development as a destination would create at
least three times more traffic than the proposal. The residential development will have garages and two
parking spots in the driveway, but a commercial development will create a huge parking lot and home
values will go down. However, this development, and even an apartment complex, would cause their
values to go up. He said that 9000 South is a key spot for transportation, which is where density belongs.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Trish Hatch reiterated Mr. Riehl' s comments that people are getting priced out of home ownership. This
is not low-income housing, and she thought it would be a great addition to the area. She appreciated the
applicant' s attempts at providing housing that was somewhat more affordable. She didn' t think that
traffic would be impacted with only 76 homes. She thought it would be great to provide a place where
families can live and work and stay here.

Kent Shelton said he lives in the neighborhood, and he didn' t feel like this plan will fit in with the
existing neighborhood and it should not be approved.

Ammon Allen did not think this area would be a big commercial draw and agreed that it should be
something other than that. He thought it was a nice idea, but it should be somewhere consistent with
surrounding neighborhoods and closer to mass transit. This property would be consistent with an R- 1- 10
zoning. He said that the west side of the valley is in potentially bad shape with overcrowded roads, lack
of UTA transit, and the need for expanded commercial districts. He said that the west side is being asked
to take the burden for more high- density housing without proper infrastructure. He would support a
recommendation     for the R- 1- 10 zone.


Trish Hatch thought that because this is at the corner of 9000 South and 4800 West it is a good place for
density. The HOA will solve any parking problems. In her experience, residents can usually have on-
street parking for family gatherings, but not overnight. An R- 1- 10 zone will just create more of the same
high housing costs. This proposal is not ideal, but we are not in an ideal situation.

MOTION:          Trish Hatch moved to suspend the rules to allow the applicant to address the
                 Commission. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 6- 0 in favor.

Greg Hughes stated that the property is within a half-mile of the Trax station and the State Statute looks
to have higher density around Trax stations.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 4




Matt Quinney said that after listening to the presentation and the comments he is beginning to agree with
the comments from Commissioner         Hatch. There is not an affordable price point with the development,
but if the zoning is approved at R- 1- 10 it will only reduce the lots by 14 and it takes away the HOA
controls and would allow parking on both sides of the road. Even with a more realistic zoning of R- 1- 8,
the housing costs go up in order to share development costs. He is not a fan of 3500- square- foot lots, but
creative solutions are needed for smaller parcels. The only finding that could be in question is Finding A
that requires a recommendation for the PRD zone on less than 20 acres, but he felt that it meets the intent
of the district.


MOTION:            Trish Hatch moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, to forward a
                   positive recommendation to the City Council to approve the requested Master
                   Development Plan for Welby West located at 8945 South 4800 West. The motion was
                   seconded by Matt Quinney and failed 3- 3 with Commissioners Shelton, Thomas, and
                   Allen casting the negative votes.

Jay Thomas said that instead of changing the future land use plan again and again we need to stay with
what is on the books. He agreed that this property probably isn' t a good fit for commercial but
considering comments from the neighbors he thought that R- 1- 10 would be better than high density.

Duncan Murray explained that if there are no other motions then a tied vote goes to the City Council as a
negative recommendation.



MOTION:            Trish Hatch moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, to forward a
                   positive recommendation to the City Council to approve the General Plan Land Use Map
                   Amendment for Welby West located at 8945 South 4800 West amending the Future Land
                   Use Map for 11. 54 acres from Neighborhood Commercial to High Density Residential.
                   The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and failed 3- 3 with Commissioners Shelton,
                   Thomas, and Allen casting the negative votes.

MOTION:            Trish Hatch moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, to forward a
                   positive recommendation to the City Council to approve the rezone request for Welby
                   West located at 8945 South 4800 West Rezoning 11. 54 acres from SC- 2 Zone and R- 1-
                   10D ( ZC) Zone to PRD( H) (Planned Residential Development— High Density) Zone.
                   The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and failed 3- 3 with Commissioners Shelton,
                   Thomas, and Allen casting the negative votes.

 The application automatically is forwarded to the City Council with a negative recommendation.]

 Jay Thomas explained to those in attendance that the application will be heard by the City Council for a
 final decision.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 5


3.       Cottages at Parker Place Development Plan Amendment; 7430 South Redwood Road;
         Recommendation to Amend the development plan eliminating the requirement for a
         masonry    wall;   Liberty Homes, Inc./Joshua Shipp ( applicant) [#26647; parcel 21- 27- 178-
         054]


Scott Langford explained that since there are no findings of fact to base a recommendation on, staff
looks at the fact that City Council approved the development that showed a masonry wall, and that is the
reason for a negative recommendation. The zoning ordinance addresses fencing and screening between
different uses. Residential next to residential doesn' t usually require a fence, but the original developer
chose to go above that requirement with a masonry wall, which was approved by the City Council. The
current developer is now asking for a change in the development plan regarding fencing.

Brian Pearson, general manager for Liberty Homes, said that most residential development would only
require an opaque fence. The code requirement for a masonry wall pertains to properties adjacent to
major streets, railroad tracks, or open waterways. This property borders apartments to the north and the
Drake farm to the west. Otherwise, it is residential, and that is why they are making the request.

Ammon Allen said the initial application included a wall. He asked Mr. Pearson why they are now
asking for something else.

Brian Pearson said the major reason is cost being $ 100 per foot versus $ 30 per foot. There is an existing
vinyl fence on the north boundary, and it does not make sense to put a masonry fence next to it. He said
the project will benefit the community. He said working with the city has been a positive experience, and
he hoped it would remain that way. He said there are no other fences along the boundary of their
property. They do not have ownership of Lot 15 or parcel A. They propose to leave the existing vinyl
fence, which is not in disrepair.


Lisa Elgin added that when the original developer included the wall, especially the one on the north, it
was in consideration of the senior residents.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission recommend denial of the amended development plan
for The Cottages at Parker Place.


Jay Thomas asked for clarification on the process following the Planning Commission meeting.

Duncan Murray said it is ultimately a City Council decision. He explained the recent policy change
regarding the authority of the Zoning Administrator. Any request to amend a requirement that was made
by the Planning Commission or City Council has to be approved by that same body. However, the more
guidance the Planning Commission wants to give to the Council regarding the recommendation, the
more helpful it will be.


Jay Thomas opened the public comment.

Jeanette Drake, West Jordan resident, said their property is zoned residential but it is being used as
agricultural. There is a ditch on the fence line. They have had so many problems with this development
since it was approved in 2017. In the letter she wrote to the Mayor there were three things they wanted
communication      about:   1)   a stamped   concrete wall;   2) a possible   retaining wall due to grade   change;   3)
Planning&    Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 6



access to their irrigation water. The ditch was piped so they are not able to install a pump to get the
water. Mrs. Drake said her son bought an irrigation box that needs to be installed. Mr. Shipp told her that
the only place on the west boundary that Liberty Homes intended to install a wall along was lot 14. She
doesn' t care what type of fence is on the northern property line, but they need a wall along their property
for safety reasons with the irrigation box. They are shareholders in the South Jordan Canal company and
need that access. She said ' good fences make good neighbors' and agreed that would be true in this
situation. Another thing she is unhappy about is that they didn' t get paid for giving access for an
emergency turnaround.

Ron Drake, West Jordan resident, said not all people have a high tolerance for the things that come along
with farming activities, so they need a concrete wall for residents of the homes facing west. When the
developer installed the road they put a curb across the lane, so they had to put dirt on top of it for people
to access the farm. The first contractor was going to help them get a bid to install concrete up to their
store, which didn' t happen. Now there is the curb instead. He would like the developer to cut out the
curb that is blocking the lane when they are working on the two new homes.

Dan Drake said he is continuing the family farm. He said that there was a very old fence on the west
property line that had grapes on it and one day they came home it had been ripped out without any
discussion. Now the house is exposed. The Planning Commission now has the opportunity to allow the
contractor to further disregard promises. The development has been poorly planned and executed and
has dragged on with no resolution. There is now a square curb over his parents' driveway and his 80-
year- old dad had to pile up dirt in order to access their driveway. This is the type of thing the builder
wants to continue doing by not installing a wall. He said that the prior owners of the subject property
said that children would climb over the vinyl fence. He said that they were promised sewer to the homes,
city water with a new pipeline, a paved lane, and a fence. The only thing in writing was the fence, and
now they don' t want to do that. He said the wall placement should be discussed so that it isn' t built on
top of the ditch.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Larry Gardner explained that most of the real wrongs the Drake' s mentioned were not caused by the
 current applicant who purchased the property from a previous developer.

 Jay Thomas thought that the original approval by the City Council should be honored, even by the
 developer who acquired it.


 Matt Quinney felt that the City Council should decide if they want to make a change. However, he
 thought that the developer should work with the Drakes who have been most affected by the
 development, including a masonry wall placed in a way that it won' t interfere with the ditch. He didn' t
 think that a masonry wall is needed between the apartments and the new lots. The property owners can
 work through the problem of children climbing the fence if that happens. There is already a fence next to
 the school.


 Trish Hatch asked for clarification on what was approved for the west property line where the irrigation
 ditch is.
Planning&    Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page   7



Lisa Elgin said the wall was only planned to be along lots 7, 8, 14, and 15, so the wall ends at Pearson
Park Court.


Trish Hatch thought that City Council should address the issues with the irrigation water and safety.

Larry Gardner said the ditch is piped from the north property line to Parker Place, so it shouldn' t be a
safety issue. However, the Drakes still need to install the box in order to access irrigation water.

Matt Quinney said the big issue is to make sure that the fence is installed so that the ditch will not
collapse. He explained that the Planning Commission is making a recommendation to City Council, who
will make the final decision. The public will have a chance to give input again at that time.

MOTION:            George Winn moved that the Planning Commission recommend to the City Council
                   denial of the amended development plan for The Cottages at Parker Place located at
                   7398 South Redwood Road. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed
                   6- 0 in favor.




4.         Sienna Hills II; approx. 7515 S Copper Rim Drive; Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary
           Subdivision Plat ( 79 townhome and 47 single- family lots and 7 parcels on 12. 62 acres); P-
           C( IOZ) Zone; Lennar Homes Utah, LLC/ Steven Jackson ( applicant) [# 25599, 26221; parcel
           20- 26- 326- 050]


Staff requested the Planning Commission continue the following item to a date uncertain to allow the
applicant and City staff to work through several issues related to the subdivision plat.
MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved to continue the Preliminary Subdivision Plat and Preliminary
                   Site Plan for Sienna Hills II located at approximately 7515 South Copper Rim Drive
                   in the P- C( IOZ) Zone to a date uncertain. The motion was seconded by Ammon
                   Allen and passed 6- 0 in favor.




 5.        Bowman' s Arrow; 6170 West 7800 South; Future Land Use Map Amendment for 75. 66
           acres from Low Density Residential, Medium Density Residential, High Density
           Residential, Community Commercial, Future Park, and Parks and Open Land to High
           Density Residential, Very High Density Residential and Parks and Open Land; ARB
           Investments/ Robert Bowman ( applicant) [# 20674; parcel 20- 26- 301- 004]


 Ben Southworth, applicant, reviewed the application for an update to the future land use map. The
 proposal meets the vision of the code that has been approved by City Council. He said this property was
 originally part of a larger piece that includes Copper Rim, but it was split by the Mountain View
 Corridor, which created some changes. The area is in need of an update in the that follows the policies
and direction of where the City is today and looking at the changes that have taken place in the area that
justify making this amendment. The Mountain View Corridor is a significant change. Zoning will only
 change once adequate infrastructure is in place. An update to the future land use map will correct some
 issues and give time to all of the agencies to property plan for the future. The IOZ zoning overlay allows
                                                           If there are too many small commercial   properties   that
 this property   to take   advantage   of the   freeway.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 8



are not regional draws, they start cannibalizing each other. So rather than having commercial on this
piece, the IOZ says it would be a good place for the housing component. There are still more than 200
acres of commercial to the east, which would be hard to compete with. He acknowledged that there are
concerns with traffic, but this change won' t impact traffic at this time. This is where density belongs
based on the code, near transportation hubs. We need to address the concerns for housing availability.
The findings are thorough, and they feel that this plan makes the most sense for the community going
forward.


Matt Quinney asked why they need to make this change now if there is no infrastructure or available
services.




Ben Southworth said they tried to bring the rezoning and development plan together with the land use
map amendment, but infrastructure, schools, and city services can' t be prepared for because the land use
map hasn' t been updated to show what is coming. A change in the land use plan triggers impact fees,
they understand there are obligations with development for roads and other impacts. Impact fees need to
be increased to help pay for development of infrastructure.

Matt Quinney said an example of commercial property going undeveloped is the lot at 4800 West and
9000 South. Then after a time the property becomes orphaned and a non- conforming project comes in.

Trish Hatch didn' t see the need for going forward with the map amendment before we know what the
plan is. She acknowledged that there are several areas in the city in which the land use map needs to be
updated.




Mark Forsythe showed the current land use map. The general plan has a recommended density range for
each land use designation. Using the current map, the density range is between 142 and 284 dwelling
units. The proposed map shows higher density close to the highway and decreasing as it nears the
neighborhood. The proposed map amendment estimates a minimum of 600 units. Density would be
negotiated with City Council at rezoning for the very high-density designation, which starts at 10. 1 units
per acre with no cap. Two future park areas are also being removed, so the city would have to revisit the
Parks and Open Lands Master Plan to reassess levels of park service. There is currently not enough
water infrastructure to support this development. There are some planned infrastructure projects in the
 coming years, but any deficit in those levels would be addressed at rezoning. Significant upgrades to the
 sewer infrastructure would be needed to service this amount of density. He pointed out the master
 planned roads of 6400 West. UDOT has agreed to build a bridge over Mountain View Corridor at 7400
 South if the city can connect the two road. Verdigris Drive is already in place on the east side.

 Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
 forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for this application.

 Jay Thomas opened the public hearing. Emails in opposition of the request were received from the
 public and would be entered into the record.


 June Christiansen, West Jordan resident, expressed serious concerns for increased traffic that this density
 would cause and for the possibility for a big box apartment complex. She thought that the future land use
 map as it is now gives a nice variety of housing that blends into the existing subdivisions. Over the years
 development has gone   more and more to increased    density, which has whittled   away at property that
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 9



would have been developed in a more attractive way. There should be a nice mix of housing, but they
shouldn' t have to bear the brunt of affordable housing. Very high- density apartments cause schools to
suffer because of the transient nature. She was strongly against the request at this point and said that it
could be revisited when there is a plan.


Ken Wilhoite, West Jordan resident, said that 7800 South is congested and clearly over capacity. Even if
the road is improved there is a limit to the number of travel lanes. He was concerned with the amount of
very high density in the plan. He understood the need to know what the transportation plan will serve in
the future, but there has been no reason given as to why that much high density is needed. He cannot see
any parks and open lands designations on the new plan. He is against the project.

Lisa Banks, West Jordan resident, said she struggles with driving on 7800 South and is worried about
lack of water. West Jordan has done a good job of having nice communities with different housing types
but adding more high density is a problem when there are already so many apartments in that area. She
liked the idea of commercial with a mix of low, medium, and high- density housing. As a schoolteacher
she was also concerned about how that type of density would affect the schools. She was against the
proposal.




Matthew Smith, West Jordan resident, was against the proposal. Finding E is unmet because of
inadequate infrastructure, especially water and sewer. He saw a problem with roads. The shape of the
property will require that everyone in this neighborhood will have to either go to 7800 South or over the
bridge that just goes to another neighborhood before reaching a major road. Estimated units could go as
high as 1800, which would triple the number of people and the amount of traffic in the area. Finding F is
 not met because the Interchange Overlay Zone is meant to be a mix of use types. The current land use
 map shows a mix, but the proposal does not. The proposal also goes against the cap and grade ordinance.
 He is worried that there is no upper limit to the density. It would be detrimental to the residents to take
 away the commercial property.

 Carli Lewis, West Jordan resident, agreed with the comment about removing the commercial property,
 which would also take away revenue that is used for city services such as park maintenance. It makes
 sense to have a mixture in this area like it is currently shown. With a mix, it allows West Jordan
 residents to live, work, and shop here. She did not think that very high density made sense and that there
 isn' t room for it. She felt that they need to solve the other problems first and take care of the community.

 Brian Looney, West Jordan resident, said the most tragic part of the proposal is the children because our
 education system is not set up for this. West Jordan has some of the most populous schools in the state
 already. The children, as future leaders, need to be better supported now, and this will cause education to
 suffer even more. He was against the proposal.


 Randy Hoffman, West Jordan resident, said they should consider that this plan would lack a of sense of
 community with the possibility of so many high- density apartment buildings. He did not know who
 would want to live in the medium density area surrounded by high density. The entire area will be
 transient with no sense of continuity or community. West Jordan needs additional funding for park
 maintenance because the current ones are horribly maintained. He understood that there is a need for
 high density, but the current plan has a decent mixture, and the proposal throws that out for something
 that is really extreme.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 10



Tina Smith, West Jordan resident, said everyone in the community is struggling with the proposal.
Traffic in the area is already being impacted from the 300 units of very high density to the south, which
isn' t even completed. This proposal is at least three times the number of units with access coming only
onto 7800 South. No matter how wide they make 7800 South it will have a big impact. The west side is
being given a huge load with the amount of high density. There are four very large apartment complexes
within one mile of this property that all feed into 7800 South. The comment had been made that this is
just a formality because it is not a zone change, but once this map is changed then the zone change is the
formality and that is why this is a big deal to the neighborhood.

Brandon Bauman, West Jordan resident, said that it can take 10- 15 minutes to get through the area
between Mountain View Corridor and 5600 West. He would love some commercial development that
included sit-down restaurants and stores on the west side of Mountain View Corridor. This proposal is
not the best option for development. He thought it would be bad growth, with more crime, and increased
water usage and traffic concerns, which makes it an undesirable place for the residents. He proposed that
the Planning Commission reject the request and keep the property as it is.

Chris Hupp, representing this client, stated that there are valid concerns that have been mentioned.
Regarding commercial development, there are more than 200 acres in the area. The reason there haven' t
been sit- down restaurants is because there aren' t enough residents within a one-, three-, and five- mile
radius. As a reference, he pointed out that the area indicated as low density on the current land use map
is actually developed as medium density up to five units per acre, and the area indicated as medium is
actually developed as high density up to 10 units per acre. Typically, townhomes are at 12- 14 units per
acre and a 3- story apartment building could not fit in the high-density range in West Jordan. They have
some good commercial eating places in the area, but there are still 150 vacant commercial acres, and
they need residents in order for it to fill in. Traffic is a valid concern, but UTA won' t respond until the
area meets the 12 units per acre threshold.


Nancy Andrew, West Jordan resident, showed pictures of what very high density looks like, but that
could be even bigger. She said the area cannot handle more traffic and the schools are at risk. Her
feelings are the same as most of the residents speaking tonight, and she was opposed to the change.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ben Southworth understood that very high density can be scary. He pointed out that the very tip of the
property will probably not be buildable because of the amount of property 7400 South will require. The
highest density is pushed against Mountain View Corridor. The reality of what the IOZ will allow is
going to be similar to what is already in the area. The very high density will act as a barrier and sound
screen from the future freeway. Housing types vary and not everyone wants to live in the same type of
product, but there are a lot of people who would want to live here. The City of West Jordan has wisely
 deemed areas where this type of density is preferable with the Interchange Overlay Zone, which includes
 this property. The plan matches medium density next to the existing medium density and moves in
 intensity toward the freeway. Density should not be the victim of unwise decisions in the past. This
 property meets all of the guidelines found in the general plan. Traffic issues will be addressed later with
 a development plan and will identify mitigation measures. They have worked with City Council and
 received positive reviews with suggestions to have a good transition from the existing neighborhoods, as
 well as other things. Because of problems with infrastructure, they are pulling back from the rezoning
 and   development   plan   process   so   that infrastructure   can   come   into place. He asked the Planning
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 11



Commission to look at this in an honest and objective way and ask, " Where does density belong, and
where     does commercial   make sense?"    Policies have also shifted with regards to parks due to
maintenance constraints. This development would have private parks and open space that will be
maintained by an HOA. They are only asking for what policy is already and allows for all stakeholders
to prepare for the future.


Ammon Allen said his thoughts on this application have shifted just a bit. Most people in the area have
to take 7800 South east to get to work. His commute has increased 2- 3 minutes every year for the last
five years. He is concerned about transportation, and he wants to get some commercial on the west side
of Mountain View Corridor. He is generally against the proposal because of those reasons. However, he
would like to see a review of the future land use map and the master transportation map for everything to
the west. They cannot just stop at this one parcel. At this point he would make a negative
recommendation for this change, but a positive recommendation to look at the future land use map in
total.



Matt Quinney asked Commissioner Allen which findings he would use to support a negative
recommendation.




Ammon Allen said with the size of the packet and with the number of comments received he would not
be able to articulate it well at this point without more time. He suggested postponement until the next
meeting.


Matt Quinney said there was so much information and comments being received from the residents up
until the meeting that he would like more time to read comments and think through the applicant' s
presentation before deciding. He said that they do not need to reopen the public hearing but have it as a
business item on the next agenda.


Larry Gardner explained to those in attendance that they will have another opportunity to give comments
at the City Council meeting.

Matt Quinney appreciated the public involvement and input and respected their time. He would usually
want a decision made tonight but because of the vast amount of information he needs more time.


 George Winn also agreed that the decision should be postponed and appreciated the valuable input from
the residents. He recognized the need for a change in the land use map, but he thought this proposal
 needed more work.



 Ammon Allen said he would appreciate a discussion and review of the future land use map on the west
 side of the city during their next pre- meeting.

 Larry Gardner said that staff and the General Plan Committee have been working on an update of the
 general plan. This summer the Commission will get to review the plan with the primary discussion being
 the remaining vacant parcels on the west side, which will take several meetings.

 George Winn and Ammon Allen would like to review the land use map for more of the area around this
 property. Specifically,    where   the commercial   centers are planned   for if this commercial   area   is removed.
Planning&      Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 12




Commissioner Allen asked why this map amendment is being reviewed now instead of when the entire
plan is reviewed and updated.


Larry Gardner explained that an applicant submitted and paid a fee for an application and staff is
processing the application following State Law and City Code. This allows due process to occur,
including holding the public hearing that allows people who are affected to attend and give input. When
the general plan update comes before them, then the Planning Commission is the applicant and will be
imposing the Planning Commission and City Council' s will upon private property, but not because of an
application.




Scott Langford explained that while the Commission and City Council have the right to ask for more
time to review an application, it cannot be done too slowly.

Trish Hatch was pleased to see so much involvement from the public, which is very helpful, and she
thanked them.



Larry Gardner encouraged the public to become involved in the general plan update process.

MOTION:            Ammon Allen moved to table the Future Land Use Map Amendment for Bowman' s
                   Arrow to the May [ 3rd] meeting as a Business Item. The motion was seconded by
                   Matt Quinney and passed 6- 0 in favor.


6.        Text Amendment— Accessory Dwelling Units in Agriculture Zones; Amend the 2009 West
          Jordan City Code Section 13- 5A-2 Adding Accessory Dwelling Units to the A-1, A-5, A-20,
          Zoning Districts    as a   Permitted Use; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [#27084]



Larry Gardner said last year the code was updated for accessory dwelling units, which focused on the R-
1 and RR zones. The Agricultural zones were not considered at that time. Staff has been approached by
people with agriculturally zoned property requesting an ADU, which is not allowed. The impact is even
less than it would be for a property with 10, 000 square feet. The main difference with this amendment is
that the setback restrictions revert to the standard setbacks for the primary house, which the properties
are large enough to accommodate.


Based on the analysis and findings contained in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for this application.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:            Trish Hatch moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a positive
                   recommendation to the City Council for the Text Amendment regarding Accessory
                   Dwelling Units in Agriculture Zones. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney
                   and   passed   6- 0 in favor.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2022
Page 13




MOTION:              Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 8: 47 p.m.




                                                      C
                                              JAY     HdMAS
                                              Chair                          n1




A    TEST:

dar              i
                                                                                   A

                                                                            41A,
JU    E DAVIS
                                                                     Imo,
Executive Assistant

Community Development Department

Approved this                 day of   1\ 7)1 A 1             2022
To: councilcomments@westjordan. utah. gov

Subject: Welby West neighborhood 4800 W.

Hello, I am a resident   in the neighborhood   just to the east of this purposed   subdivision.   I have attended

the meetings with the developer and have expressed my concerns on this matter.
In my opinion West Jordan does not need any more neighborhoods like this, there have been a lot of
them built off of 7800 s and Mountain View, and since all of these neighborhoods have come in the city
has a huge traffic problem.

In my opinion this property needs to be developed similar to the existing neighborhood. 30- 40 homes
with . 25+ acres. Putting 70+ homes in this tiny 11 acres is crazy. 4800 w is a nightmare around school
time and parking is going to be horrible. I am assuming the city will see a large amount of vehicles
parking along 4800 w to accommodate this development. I understand that lot needs to be developed,
but in my opinion 70+ Low density homes is not the answer.
Thank you for your time.


Tyler




                                                         2
Julie Davis


From:                         Jennifer < jenniferhunt2008@comcast. net>
Sent:                         Tuesday, April 19, 2022 1: 04 AM
To:                           Julie Davis
Subject:                      Welby west 9000 s 4800 w corner rezone



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.



Name: Jennifer Hunt
Address: 8898 S Black Pine St
West Jordan It, 84088


Julie,


Hello. I am

Contacting you about the rezoning of the corner on 9000 s and 4800 w. We have a meeting
4/ 19/ 22 for the Welby west rezoning.

We have had several meetings with the contractors/ people Who want to rezone and build
here.) just have to say I am not a fan of either plan they have proposed. High density. One
was 98 homes and now 77 homes.) really feel this should not be a high density corner. When
we would try to voice our concerns these builders would change the subject or start another
topic to address it. We suggested a senior living center and feel this would be perfect for this
area. Many people have parents they would love to have close by who live in this area. It
would bring less traffic as well. Ever since Mountain view opened and 9000 s opened to it. This
area has tripled with cars and it is a speedway with so many cars. We don' t need any extra
traffic added here.
I learned This is an 11 acre corner and if homes are built, max should be 50- 55 homes with
quarter acre lots to match the existing neighborhood next to it and across from it on
90th. With a variety of ramblers, multi levels homes. Not 2 story. We have SO MANY high
density living places right off 9000 so and 5600 w. We don' t need more here.. We really
don' t. Please do not zone it high density. It should stay single family 10, 000 sq ft lots as it is
zoned. We are worried that we' ll have overload of cars trying to park in our exsisting
neighborhood or on the streets..Just like most High density living the cars line the busy roads
for lack of parking.
The Jordan Hills school right by this corner is already overloaded everyday as well as 9000 so
during morning and evening rush hour.) feel it is so unsafe to add more cars and a right only
out in the direction of the school. We have so many people who walk on this corner as well
as by the school and library.The less cars the better. Also the exsisting neighborhood cannot
get out of the exit across the the school off pine crossing. This will make it so much
worse. We' ve had several accidents already right here. I believe another 3000+ extra car trips
from this corner daily in and out travel will make it awful. The builders keep saying we can
control this with traffic lights being timed right, it' s still going to be a nightmare. This road is

                                                        1
backed up every day at school Drop off and pick up from the school to the light on 90th. In
the winter it' s even   worse.   The builders did drone footage to view this..) don' t think they fully

understand or care about the issue. They just want what they want. What about a UDOT team
conducting a survey?
The existing home owners bordering this field do not want 2 story homes looking down into
their backyards. It' s an invasion of privacy. The existing home owners do not like the idea of
the hoa home owners having access into our neighborhood nor us driving through theirs. lf
this is built we suggest the 2nd entrance stay locked and not made a 2nd exit as has been
for over 20+ yrs as the field owner had it and has been into the exsisting neighborhood and
the city/ fire/ police will have access if this gate needs opened. We we' re told this could be
done at the last meeting by a West Jordan board member.
Sorry for any rambling and or repeating..) was trying to type this quickly tonight and get it
sent in for the meeting.

Thank you for your time reading this.

Thank you,
Jen Hunt




Sent from my iPhone




                                                      2
Julie Davis


From:                                  The Sanderson Family < sandersonclan@hotmail. com>
Sent:                                  Wednesday, April 13, 2022 8:08 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Comment for the April 19 Planning Commission Meeting - Welby West


CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Julie,

Please confirm that you will add the following comments to the Planning Commission Meeting on April 19,
2022; it' s in regards to the Welby West Development Plan rezoning proposal. For the record, my name is
Rachel Sanderson and my address is 8957 S. Black Pine Street, West Jordan, UT 84088. My husband, Phillip
Sanderson, and I are the current owners. I will be out of town when this meeting takes place and want to
make sure you know how I feel about this request.


 In regards to the Welby West proposed high density re-zoning: I appreciate that the developer has held 3
meetings trying to convince us that we need this " affordable housing"; as they put it. To get behind this project
I feel that they need a plan that would match the surrounding area. A plan for 8, 000- 10, 000 sq ft lots would
be prime. Right now the 3, 700 square ft lots they are requesting, are just too small with no parking
options. My home sits directly at the end of Red Spruce Drive and my concern is that when a HOA limits
parking on high density housing, we will find more vehicles parked in front of my house and down Black Pine
Street as an " overflow".    Take a look at the Daybreak       area south   of 4800 West&       10200 South, there is road

constantly filled with cars at all times of the day or night. I have only lived here for about 3 years, but I figured
housing would always come to that piece of land, but not at such a high density. It will wreak havoc on my
street with parking and traffic and I refuse to get behind their current proposed plan. I am hoping that the
West Jordan Planning Commission would agree."


If you need to get in contact with me about this comment or anything else, please feel free to call me at 801-
787- 4709 or email me at sandersonclan@hotmail.            com.


Thank you so much for your consideration,
Rachel   E. Sanderson

8957 S Black Pine Street
West Jordan, UT 84088




                                                                  1
Julie Davis

From:
                                       Trisha Masuda < trishamasuda@gmail.com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 10: 35 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Comment on land use amendment at Bowman' s Arrow

Follow  Up Flag:                       Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Please pass on my comment regarding a future land use amendment for Bowman' s Arrow located at 6170 West 7800
South, West Jordan.



I am a resident across 7800 S and do not want the land use amended. We already have very high density apartment
complexes in the area and the nature of the community will be negatively impacted by adding more (for several reasons
including traffic congestion and lack of supporting commercial development.) I vote NO on amending the land use.
Trisha Masuda

6343 W 7830 S, West Jordan, UT 84081




                                                                1
Julie Davis

From:                      Diljeet Masuda < diljeetmasuda@gmail.   com>
Sent:
                           Tuesday, April 19, 2022 10:40 AM
To:                        Julie Davis
Subject:                   Bowman' s Arrow


Follow     Up Flag:        Follow up
Flag Status:               Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.



Please pass on my comment regarding a future land use amendment for Bowman' s Arrow
located at 6170 West 7800 South, West Jordan.


I am a resident across 7800 S and do not want the land use amended. We already have very
high density apartment complexes in the area and the nature of the community will be
negatively impacted by adding more ( for several reasons including traffic congestion and
lack of supporting commercial development.) I vote NO on amending the land use.
Diljeet Masuda
6343 W 7830 S, West Jordan, UT 84081

303- 949- 8791 cell


Sent from my iPhone




                                                    1
Julie Davis

From:
                                                Walker Masuda < walkermasuda@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                                Tuesday, April 19, 2022 10: 43 AM
To:                                             Julie Davis
Subject:                                        Comment on land use amendment at Bowman' s Arrow

Follow   Up Flag:                               Follow up
Flag Status:                                    Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Please pass on my comment regarding a future land use amendment for Bowman' s Arrow located at 6170 West 7800
South, West Jordan.



I am a resident across 7800 S and do not want the land use amended. We already have very high density apartment
complexes in the area and the nature of the community will be negatively impacted by adding more ( for several reasons
including traffic congestion and lack of supporting commercial development.) I vote NO on amending the land use.

           7, 7T-'   !. VF ±   i ;_ -   3I u, r: e'..




                                               Walker Masuda
                                               Visual Artist& Musician/ Composer/ Producer


                                               https:// www. walkermasuda. com
                                               My Social Pages: httos:// linktr. ee/ walkermasuda. art


                                               Directly Message Me
                                               Discord • Twitter • Instagram




                                                                         1
Julie Davis


From:
                                       Tirah Sheppard < tirah.sheppard@yahoo.com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 8: 37 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Bowman' s Arrow zoning change



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.


To whom it may concern:

I am writing today regarding the upcoming meeting on the proposed zoning change on Bowman' s Arrow site. I am
concerned with the change to High Density and Very High Density due of the lack of infrastructure in our area. 7800 South
is not designed well enough to accommodate the already overwhelming amount of traffic, not to mention turning onto
7800 S from 6400 W is already a nightmare and a round- about( which is currently planned, from what I understand) does
not seem to be adequate with the increased population that is being proposed. We also have extremely limited public
transit to this area. There are no current bus routes or TRAX stations within walking distance of this site. In my opinion,
before changing the zoning in this area, you need to address adding 2 full lanes with a turning lane on 6400 W, creating 4
full lanes and a turning lane on 7800 South, make a traffic light at 6400 W 7800 S, as well as add more schools to the
area. The current Maple Hills neighborhood isn't even offered bus services to Fox Hollow Elementary School. This new
neighborhood would also be considered "too close" with much heavier traffic for crossing on 7800 South. Sunset Ridge
Middle School and Copper Hills High School are bursting at the seems. Before adding thousands more to the current
population of the area, we need to consider where these children will get their education. West Jordan is already the third
or fourth largest city in Utah. Traffic is terrible. Smith' s is the only grocery store in the area, and although has adequate
space to handle the existing residents, will not be able to accommodate the hundreds/ thousands more that this proposal
will bring. The area needs more basic necessities before we consider increasing the population with changing from low,
medium and high density housing to high and very high density housing.

Thank you for your time.


Tirah Sheppard concerned West Jordan resident




                                                                1
Julie Davis

From:                                  David Sheppard < dshep4589@gmail.com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 10: 13 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               Bowman' s Arrow




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



As a West Jordan resident living near 7800 South and 6400 W, I am vehemently opposed to high density or
multi-family housing of any kind being approved at Bowman's Arrow. It should be developed into an archery
park to commemorate it's name. Children and adults of all ages can learn and develop a lifelong skill and those
who love archery already can have a local place to practice.

Also, the county assessor's website has this area listed at 86. 14 acres. Why is there a 10.48 acre discrepancy?
Dave Sheppard




                                                                 1
Julie Davis


From:                                  Chelsea Sheppard < chelsit21@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 9: 56 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Against the Rezoning

Follow Up Flag:
                                       Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged

                                         Z3   L,tr ', Kan s Ancti-vd

CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hi,




We are VERY against " Bowman' s Arrow" rezoning to high density housing. When we moved in, we were under the
impression it was supposed to be a beautiful park area. We have enough houses going up around here that are already
hurting our resources. My water pressure has dramatically decreased in the last year. I can' t imagine what adding this
kind of community would do. We are saying NO to this zoning option.

Chelsea    Sheppard
6308 W 7900 S




                                                                 1
Julie Davis

From:
                                             Cody Funk < cody.funk@hsc. utah.edu>
Sent:
                                            Thursday, April 14, 2022 1: 06 PM
To:                                         Julie Davis
Subject:
                                             Rezoning of" Bowman' s Arrow"



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.




Julie,

 I am strongly against the rezoning of Bowman' s Arrow just east of 6400S. We don' t need more high or very high
density housing in the area. The higher density housing that was built across 7800S is already falling into disrepair. The
land hasn' t been taken care of, there is no curbing in place around the complex. Building rental property just to fix the
housing issues can potentially make it worse. In the long run it isn' t going to do any good. This entire rezoning attempt is
solely for the owner of an $ llmillion dollar( according to the West Jordan website) piece of land to make more money
off of   it. I am   also   extremely   against   the major   hit to properly   values   that   higher density housing   creates.   We also

don' t want the crime increase, that higher density brings, nor do we even remotely have the infrastructure to support
higher density housing. Fox Hollow Elementary School is already overcrowded, and we don' t need the state education
system any worse. Utah finally passed Idaho as the 2nd worst for spending per pupil in the nation, we don' t want to be in
last place again.


In talking to the people around my community, I haven' t encountered anyone that is for this zoning change. If anything,
the change should be for lower density in the area.



Cody Funk




                                                                          1
             3oww‘        etv\




Tudie Frank- Johnson & Allen E Johnson




April 14, 2022




Planning and Zoning
City of West Jordan

RE: Comment on Proposed Land Use Change for NW corner of 7800 S and Mountain View

We are writing to voice our concern over the proposed change for Land Ilse of this corner that will
be on your April 19, 2022 agenda. Please VOTE NO to the change.

As it is, 7R00 S is already so crowded and changing that corner to more high- density use will
burden the road and our nearby neighborhoods. In the mornings and afternoons, the round-a-
bout by Smith' s becomes a back log of cars. There is much need for 780(1 to be widened towards
Mountain View and beyond heading west.

We need more grocery store choices in the neighborhood. We need independent
restaurants/ bar/ grills - vs- all the FAST FOOD CHAINS that are everywhere. We have no place to
bike or walk to for a meal. A Sprouts or Trader Joe' s or Whole Foods would be a welcome change
and offer so many more Options than the single grocery we have- Smith' s or 61ailmart down the
road. It would be nice to see some higher end retail on our side of town. Jordan Landing is ok, but
still several miles away without nice stores. Try to grab a bottle of wine to take to dinner at a
friends'. Nope, you have to go to West Valley or Herriman to get one. Such an inconvenience. I
come from Arizona where you can grab one at the grocery store. How about a state store in the
Highlands?



We moved to West Jordan because we liked the cleaner air and the view from our yard is
magnificent east and west. Moving that parcel' s land use to super high- density apartments will
bring more crime, trash, noise, air pollution and traffic. Transient apartment dwellers are rarely as
respectful of neighborhoods as home owners are. We know first- hand as we own several rental
properties and the renters wreck the homes. Please don' t turn us into a West Valley!

Sincerely,

Tudie Frank- Johnson
Allen EJohnson



                                                 a--
Julie Davis

 From:
                                       Brandon Andersen < b_andersen540@yahoo. com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 12, 2022 10: 29 AM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Public Comment for 6170 W 7800 S Use Map Amendment
                                              fJ o w vyk, . c-
CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.


Julie,


For the upcoming Planning Commission Meeting on Apr. 19, I will not be able to attend, but wanted
my comment to be recorded. Regarding the Future Land Use Map Amendment for 6170 W. 7800 S., I
have some major concerns regarding this requested change, the primary one being the increased
amount of traffic this will bring to the area that is already overloaded. The E-W traffic during both
morning and evening commute times is already too much for the intersection at 7800 S. and Mtn.
View Corridor to handle. I have talked to UDOT about this and even they have admitted that this
intersection was not designed to handle the amount of traffic that is currently going through this
intersection, yet they have no plans within the next 10 years to do anything about it. As people travel
during this timeframe and have to wait multiple lights, they get impatient and then make bad
decisions, often resulting in accidents, sometimes deadly. UDOTs own data shows that this
intersection is one of the two most dangerous along Mtn. View Corridor, and adding more residents
will increase this and ultimately make this intersection even less safe and create even more
frustration for residents in this area that are already frustrated with traffic here.

Before considering any change to the Use Map I would encourage those on the Planning
Commission to drive through this intersection during the evening commutes and really think about
how adding even more residencies will affect this area before voting. I truly understand the need to
create more affordable housing in Salt Lake County, but when doing so, we must consider everything
that will impact, especially our roads. Until major changes happen at this intersection that will alleviate
the already strained traffic, I cannot put my support behind this Use Map Amendment, and ask the
Planning Committee to do the same and not recommend this change. The current Use Map for this
land will already create for issues here for this intersection, please dont make it even worse by
recommending this change that will add even more residents.

Thanks,


Brandon Andersen
6513 W. 7735 S.
West Jordan, UT 84081
b_ andersen540@yahoo. com
801- 842- 3031




                                                                1
Julie Davis

From:
                                       Carly Stirland < carlystirland@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                       Thursday, April 14, 2022 1: 39 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Re: Re- zoning
                                        S     wmGC- \

CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.


6170 W 7800 S
West Jordan,   UT 84081



On Thu, Apr 14, 2022 at 1: 37 PM Julie Davis< Julie. davis@westiordan. utah. gov> wrote:


 Can you tell me which property this is regarding?



juCie Davis


 Executive Assistant




 West Jordan Community Development

 801 569 5066




 From: Carly Stirland < carlystirland@gmail. com>
 Sent: Thursday, April 14, 2022 1: 36 PM
To: Julie Davis< iulie. davis@westjordan. utah. gov>
 Subject: Re- zoning




 CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.




 Please read this at the planning meeting.




 To Whom it May Concern:

                                                                 1
The field should not be rezoned.


High- density housing will put a strain on infrastructure, which is nowhere near ready.
Schools are overcrowded.


The current plan of mixed low, medium, and high density housing along with commercial, a future park and
open space is very reasonable and was well thought out when the zoning was originally determined. It should
stay as intended.


Please keep the plan as previously designed.



Thank you.


Carly Stirland




                                                      2
Julie Davis

From:
                            Andrew Conelly < aconelly1813@gmail. com>
Sent:
                            Thursday, April 14, 2022 3: 29 PM
To:                         Julie Davis
Subject:
                            Bowman' s Arrow rezoning



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.



I was told that could send an email to you in regards to the rezoning of Bowman' s Arrow and
have it passed on to the planning meeting.

I just wanted to voice my opposition to the possible rezoning of the aforementioned area
from low, medium, and high density housing to high and ultra high density housing, as well as
removing space for commercial building.

It' s already getting crowded west of Mountain View Corridor and 7800 S isn' t wide enough to
accommodate the traffic as is. Adding high density apartments will not only exacerbate the
traffic problem, but it will also further overcrowd our public schools.

In speaking with others in the area, we would much rather the zoning stay the same to
accommodate some new homes, but also some new commercial properties.

Andrew Conelly
6617 W Terrace Sky Lane
West Jordan, UT 84081
801- 380- 3615


Sent from my iPhone




                                                       1
Julie Davis

From:
                                       Tiffany Nguyen < t.a. brinkerhoff@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                       Friday, April 15, 2022 12: 54 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               Bowman' s Arrow


Follow Up Flag:
                                       Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hello,



I would like to formally state that I am against the proposal for the change of zoning to build high density and very high
density buildings in Bowman' s Area. The current zone for low- medium - high is why we chose the area for our family
and to raise our children. We do not want very high density buildings here.
Please take this into consideration along with my fellow neighborhood complaints.
Thank you,



Tiffany




                                                                 1
Julie Davis


From:                                  Alissa Hicks < AlissaHicks@msn.   com>
Sent:                                  Saturday, April 16, 2022 6:40 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Comment on Bowman' s Arrow Rezoning

Follow    Up Flag:                     Follow up
Flag    Status:                        Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hi,




I wanted to send my comments about the rezoning of the Bowmans Arrow area that is on the meeting schedule for April
19th.



I am a homeowner in the Garbett home developments directly across the street from this piece of land. My backyard is
right up against 7800 South. I want to say that I am very against the rezoning of this land to high and very high density. I
do not want it at all.


My husband and I moved to West Jordan back in 2019, because we loved how open it all was. There was space to move
around and little traffic, especially compared to the east side or towards salt lake city. Since then, the huge apartment
complex right against mountain view corridor off 7800 south ( as well as many other developments around the area)
have been put in and the traffic is horrendous. 7800 south is a 2 lane road and with my house being against it, I can see
how backed up the traffic is constantly. We are pretty far up the road and traffic will be stop/ go, regularly, clear past my
house! It is, also, impossible to turn left out of our neighborhood, except for very late at night. There are constantly
accidents by the apartment complex entrance on to 7800, as well as, at that intersection of mountain view corridor. It is
a very regular( and scary!) occurrence. Mind you, that this is all with just the current building that has already happened.
I fear how much worse it will become if this development is allowed to move forward with very high density house. We
do not have the infrastructure to deal with this many more people moving to the west side. Even mountain view
corridor is only 2 lanes each direction!


Beyond that, I, also, worry about what kind of crime is going to be brought to the west side with all of those high density
buildings. I grew up in Magna and once they started building all of those huge apartment complexes, the crime seemed
to have increased significantly. Enough so, that my parents decided to move away after 20 years of living there. I love
our area of West Jordan and I don' t want it to become completely different.

I understand that people need places to live and that there might be a shortage of living spaces for everyone. However,
this rezone does not feel like our area of West Jordan is being truly considered or cared about. To be honest, it feels like
a massive cash grab from shoving a bunch of people into a very small area and not caring about any of the effects it may
actually have on the area. ( The little amount land I was forced to settle for in my neighborhood was bad enough!) What
is to be done about our water situation for all of these new houses( now and in the future)? What about the traffic, as I
mentioned? The overall quality of life in this area? People mention high/ very high density housing when it comes to
 affordable living", but is it actually? When those apartments on Mountain View were built, they were$ 1800 a month at
the time. That is just barely less than my mortgage for an entire house, so, I' d hardly call that affordable at all. It sounds
like an excuse to put more people on smaller and smaller amounts of land.




                                                                  1
I would much rather see the varieties of housing density that this area is originally zoned for. Equal amounts of low,
medium, and some high density would be fine. I love the idea of another a park and even some open land or a couple of
commercial things. I can live with all of that. I just do not want high density only housing in our area. If I wanted to be
around a ton of people in small areas, I' d live in Daybreak or the east side. I would' ve made a whole different decision on
where I ended up. I built in this area of West Jordan, * because* I wanted to get away from a busy city, but still be close
enough to drive in. I wasn' t expecting the busy city to follow and be packed so tightly together. So, please, do not allow
this area to be rezoned.


Thank you for your time and consideration,

Alissa




                                                            2
Julie Davis

From:                                  Edwin Morgan < edwin.s. morgan@gmail. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, April 18, 2022 7: 36 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Bowman' s Arrow Meeting Topics



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hi Julie, I was given your email to submit a request for the below comments to be added to the Bowman' s Arrow group
discussion on April 19, 2022.


One concern is how this rezoning will impact the city' s last decade of decreasing water flows and the all- time water level
lows.



Other areas that I think should be considered are local school ratios and if this rezoning will positively or negatively
impact those. Recent estimates recognize West Jordan has a 23: 1 student to teacher ratio (higher ratios depending on
the age group). When comparing that to the national average of - 17: 1. I see this rezoning proposal as negatively
impacting our future student to teacher ratios. The student test scores are already pretty low( less than 50% in most
categories) and taking further resources away from the teachers ability to effectively educate our children by increasing
their class sizes significantly, will put our children at an even further disadvantage. New schools need to be considered




                                                                 1
Julie Davis

From:                                  Amy Rowe < maimes25@gmail. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, April 18, 2022 8:21 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               A     nst the land plans at Mountain View and 7800 S North West side.
                                           t3aiO( u Y\ a v1.
CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



To Whom it may concern,

I am one who does not voice my opinion but this plan is one that I really do not like at all. I am a mother and
plan on raising our family in this neighborhood. We do not want high density housing just off the Mountain
View Corridor and 7800 South on the northwest side. Here are my main concerns; 7800 South is not able to
handle the traffic of that many cars or the intersection with mountain view, we are worried that having high
density housing will lower the value of the area, high density housing leads to higher crime and garbage of the
area, there are not enough restaurants or grocery stores in the area to accommodate this area with that many
people in it.
The fire department will have huge issues using 7800 with the increase of cars. The roundabout that is planned
for 7800 will not be able to handle the increase of people.
Instead we would like to see a developed neighborhood with parks like what has already been done in the
area. This still allows for more homes to be built but still keeps green spaces and places for families to grow.
Another thing that would be good for the neighborhood is a community garden area that could help bring
people together and help those out in difficult times. More community spaces are a benefit to all and also
increase value of the community and property.

Thanks for taking the time to read this and consider other options.

Very Respectfully the Rowe Family.




                                                                  1
Julie Davis

From:                                  allison sorenson < allisonsorenson@yahoo. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, April 18, 2022 10: 33 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               Bowman' s Arrow




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.




My name is Allison Burnett and I am strongly against Bowman' s Arrow being a High density development. There are no
resources for that many more people out here! Not to mention, where are all of the children going to go to
school? The already overcrowded schools? Absolutely not!! There is no reason that area cannot just be single family
homes. We DO NOT need any more apartments out here. The ones they are finishing on the corner of Mtn. View is
ENOUGH.

Maybe you all should be focusing on widening 7800 S. before you even THINK about building more of anything out
here. I really hope you consider this and let' s stick to single family homes, more schools and working on 7800s( not in
that order).



Best regards,


      Allison burnett
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone




                                                                 1
Julie Davis


From:                                  joe burnett < xjoebgox@yahoo. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, April 18, 2022 10: 34 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:
                                       Bowman' s Arrow re- zoning



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.




Hello, I' m writing you in regards to the proposed re- zoning of Bowman' s Arrow in West Jordan. I' m hoping this will be
read in the planning meeting scheduled for
4/ 19/ 2022.

I am a resident of Maple Hills which is adjacent to Bowman' s Arrow. I am VERY opposed to any re- zoning of that
property. We already have so many challenges in our neighborhood.          Traffic on 7800 s is a complete nightmare. The
schools are very over crowded Fox Hollow, Sunset Ridge and Copper Hills are so over capacity it' s sad. I' ve chosen to
remove my daughter from Sunset Ridge because the over crowding is so terrible. We' ve also had water pressure issues
in our neighborhood which I can only imagine will increase due to the constant growth. I am asking the city council and
the planning commission to deny any re- zoning of that property.

Thank you, Joe Burnett
Sent from Yahoo Mail for iPhone




                                                                 1
Julie Davis


From:                                       Loraine    La < lorainela37@gmail.   com>
Sent:                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 12: 45 PM
To:                                         Julie Davis
Subject:                                    Public Comment for Bowman' s Arrow Future Land Use Amendment


Follow Up Flag:                             Follow up
Flag Status:                                Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Hi Julie,



Please may I ask that the below comments be entered in the public hearing for Bowman' s Arrow listed as item 5 for the
April   19, 2022 Planning&     Zoning Commission meeting .


My name is Loraine La. I am a resident of the Maples Hills community west of 6400 W and north of 7800 S. I am
opposed     to the proposed    amendment         for Bowman' s Arrow.



The increase to very high density in most of the lot will add a burden to the already stressed out traffic and road
infrastructure, overcrowd the already full schools, and completely eliminate the community commercial zoning that is
included    in the current plan.


Commercial development has been slow to be added and removal of commercial zones will mean it will never be
added.      Before we eliminate the commercial zone entirely from the land use map, we must look at other options to
attract businesses to West Jordan. We have watched development spring upon many neighboring cities' s Mountain
View Corridor intersections        with    bustling,   attractive &   lucrative commercial hubs, easily accessible on the Corridor and
are eager to see that for ourselves. We would welcome being able to spend more of our dollars in West Jordan
businesses ( currently our dollars are spent in a lot of Riverton, Herriman and South Jordan businesses).


West Jordan as the 3rd largest city in the state, should be striving for more such commercial developments in such easily
accessible    transportation   hubs   as    78th South &
                                                Mountain View, while thoughtfully adding appropriate
residential density adjacent to those commercial and transportation hubs.

Thank you for your time.


Loraine La
Maples Hills Resident




                                                                           1
Julie Davis


From:                                  mua   aiono <   mua_ aiono@yahoo.   com>

Sent:                                  Tuesday, April 19, 2022 1: 04 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               AGAINST              s




Follow Up Flag:                        Follow up
Flag Status:                           Completed




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



To whom it may concern:


We currently live in the Maples Neighborhood and are AGAINST the development of high, medium, or low density
apartments or homes in the Bowman' s Arrow area. Our schools are currently over populated. For example, there are
SEVEN 5th grade classes alone at Fox Hollow Elementary with 30 children in each class. That is ridiculous. 7800 South
from 5600 W all the way west has terrible traffic as it is. These issues need to be FIXED first before any other homes are
built. The developer said they are fixing the road in the next two years, why can' t they bring up these plans after the
road is fixed and the issue with overpopulation in school is fixed.


Regards,
Lomu Residence




                                                                    1
Julie Davis


From:                                  Shaleese McPhee < ShaleeseYoung@hotmail. com>
Sent:                                  Tuesday, April 19, 2022 12: 10 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               Planning & Zoning for Bowman' s Arrow, Hearing 4/ 19/ 22



CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Good afternoon,     Ms. Davis,


I was given your email after receiving the notice that we received about the meeting that is scheduled for this evening to
discuss the planning and rezoning of the area located at 6170 W. 7800 S. in West Jordan into a high- density residential
community. I am unable to attend the meeting, but I do wish to express my disapproval of the high- density residential
community through email and I hope that my concerns will be read by the commission.

As a resident of the area, I can honestly say that the area cannot sustain a high- density residential community. The school
system     is overwhelmed,   7800 S. can not accommodate    for the amount of traffic that travels on the road to and from
Mountain View and SR 111, and our State is in a record drought and looking for alternative ways to preserve water. From
what I' ve read on the HOA FaceBook page, my neighbors feel the same.

Thank you for receiving my email, and I hope a well thought out and conscious plan will come from tonight' s meeting.

Sincerely,

ShaCeese' Young MccPhee




                                                                 1
Julie Davis

From:                                  Matt Smith < matthewdsmith@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 3: 33 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Cc:                                    Tina Smith
Subject:
                                       Email to planning commission

Follow Up Flag:
                                       Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged
                                                                          p


CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Julie Davis,



Would you please forward this email to the members of the Planning Commission? I will be in attendance at the meeting
this evening but will not have time to read the entire text but would like the commission to have a copy to refer to.
Thank you,
Matthew and Tina Smith




                             For the West Jordan Planning and Zoning Commission

                        From the Maples Development Neighborhood at Jordan Hills




 Our Arguments against amending the Future Land Use Map for 86. 14- acres of land located at 6170 West 7800 South,
                                                     parcel# 20263010040000.




This proposed Land Map change is laying the groundwork for zone changes to this parcel of property., which is directly
adjacent to our neighborhood to the East. If allowed to go forward, this map change will allow ease in zone change. This
Land Map change and the ensuing zone changes should not be allowed to go forward based on the following findings
being unmet:




Finding A: The proposed amendment conforms to and is consistent with the adopted goals,
objectives, and policies set forth in the City General Plan- Partly Unmet.



While this proposed Map change includes a mix of mostly Very High Density Residential, High Density Residential and
Medium Density Residential ( all allowed for within the Plan), this plan drastically alters the distribution of these densities
and completely removes zoning for Commercial, Low Density and Future Parks/ Green Space. Therefore it does not meet
                                                                 1
the objectives of the General Plan in creating balance nor their goals in Providing a Safe and Healthy Living Environment,
Preserving the Natural Character, Beauty and Amenities of the city.




Finding B: The development pattern contained on the land use plan inadequately provides the
appropriate       optional sites   for the use and/   or change   proposed   in the   amendment. -     Unmet.




The discussion in this section of the Proposal discusses land use across West Jordan City as a whole, and is inadequate
for discussing the needs of a balanced Land Map. The acknowledgment that most of the lowest density housing within
West Jordan is found in already established neighborhoods should be of concern to the West Jordan Planning
commission. Balance is not just a numbers game. A good Land Map does not see that one area of the city is heavy in one
type of zoning, and thus tries to balance the numbers by piling higher densities in other areas. The whole reason for a
Land Use Map is to try to ensure balance within all areas of the city. The discussion in Finding B does not look at our
specific area and discusses the balance of zoning needs within our community, as well as the city as a whole.




Finding C: The proposed amendment will be compatible with other land uses, existing or planned, in
the vicinity. -   Partly Unmet




As discussed above, this Proposal includes a mix of Residential Zoning that is allowed for within the Future Land Map,
and in fact are already found within the parcel. However, the increased traffic demand created by increased density
designations will over-stress and overwhelm the already struggling collector roads, intersections and removes potential
for commercial amenities desperately needed, as discussed further below.




Finding D: The proposed amendment constitutes an overall improvement to the adopted general land
use map - Unmet.




This proposed increased density change to the Land Use Map is definitely in the best interest of only one or two of the
parties involved, and does not constitute an overall improvement. A reduction of Commercial zoning West of Mountain
View cannot be justified using the parcels proximity to commercial located East of Mountain View, when all access to
that commercial is limited to one single- lane road which is already over- taxed. In addition, all alternative mass
transportation routes and plans are also located East of Mountain View, and not available to us on the West side.




The Proposal dictates that, " the proposed land uses will guide development toward a variety of housing types that will
help to alleviate current housing supply shortages, support existing and future commercial centers and offer greater
diversity in housing choices for different lifestyles." We ask the Committee step back and see that increasing density
does not create variety or diversity in housing choices in our area. Indeed, a review of our area map shows that within
the 1 mile of 7800 South adjacent to our neighborhood we have 4 of the largest and highly dense apartment complexes
on the West side ( Serengeti Springs, Gladstone, Affinity and Boulder Canyon). While we recognize and agree that High
                                                             2
Density zoning is necessary for a balanced Land Use Map, we implore the committee to maintain the current size and
level of density in parcel# 20263010040000, thus insuring a balance of zoning for our community and a safe and healthy
environment for us to live in.




Finding E: The proposed amendment will not adversely impact the neighborhood and community as a
whole by significantly altering acceptable land use patterns and requiring larger and more expensive
public infrastructure improvements, including, but not limited to, roads, water, wastewater and
public safety facilities, than would otherwise be needed without the proposed change.



1) Adequate          Road Infrastructure— Unmet.




Residents of the Maples and parcel# 20263010040000 must drive on 7800 So. to enter or exit the neighborhood, as
there is no alternate North/ South or East/ West road to access our neighborhood. While improvements have been made
to 7800 South over the last 20 years, this portion of the road remains a narrow 1- lane- each- way. This proposal would
drastically increase traffic in this over- stressed essential portion of road- which already suffers from major bottlenecks
during school/ work high traffic times, as well as frequent and significant accidents at the Mountain View junction.




Increasing density to adjacent properties drastically impacts our neighborhood. As stated in the Planning Commission
Staff Report, " the applicant has not provided a legal description that would be needed in order to calculate the new
potential density." This is of great concern as the proposed changes would alter a significant portion of land to Very High
Density. We are keenly aware of the impact this will have as we have recently seen this change occur with the addition
of the Gladstone Place Apartments development, directly across 7800 South from parcel# 20263010040000, which is
referenced       in the proposal.




Gladstone is a Very High Density development, which is not yet complete. According to their office, at it' s completion in
2023, Gladstone will have over 300 units. Unlike parcel# 20263010040000, Gladstone has an alternate exit allowing
access to 8200 South. Despite this alternate route, already the traffic impact from this partially complete development
have created substantial increase in traffic, delays and accidents on 7800 South. In addition, there is significant overflow
street parking happening on 7800 South associated with these units.




This proposed amendment would create a Very High Density area which appears almost 3 times the acreage of
Gladstone Place. Therefore, using Gladstone as a reference we can assume that just the Very High Density portion of this
development could create between 700-900 units. When adding the High Density and Medium density portions, it is not
unreasonable for us to assume that the zone change could result in around 1500 units, which is about 3000 new cars
both within the neighborhood and driving on 7800 So. As all East- bound traffic from the west side bottlenecks through
either 7800 South or 9000 South, significant increase in density on 7800 South will result in extreme delays on both
these   roads.




                                                              3
UDOT is responsible for both 7800 South and 9000 South in our area. All previous conversations we' ve had with UDOT
have indicated that UDOT has no imminent plans or projections for widening 7800 So. ( beyond one extra lane in each
direction) or 9000 So. While Mountain View Highway is adjacent to this parcel, any access to Mountain View must come
off of 7800 South. As we have no north- south roads accessing our neighborhood, it is unacceptable to consider adding
the potential of approximate 3000 or more cars to our only access road ( 7800 So.) from one small entrance area, and
does not meet the criteria to provide a Safe Living Environment for all Citizens required for Residential Goal 1.



2) Adequate Public Water and Waste Infrastructure— Unmet.




The City does not have the ability to service the property with regards to culinary water and sanitary sewer. The City' s
own findings confirm that this parcel does not have the Storm Drain, Sanitary Sewer or Water infrastructure to increase
the current plan' s density. As stated within the findings, " Water and sewer infrastructure is based upon the current land
use map. An increase in density above what is currently planned for on the land use map is inadequate to service a large
high density residential community." Any movement towards increasing the potential density of this parcel creates a
major expense and future claim on city funds. " Significant and expensive on and off site improvements     are required in
order for this property to be developed at this density ."




    3.   Adequate Commercial Infrastructure— Unmet.




After over 20 years of existence and consistent development, our area West of Mountain View still only has a single
business—a gas station on U- 111. The proposed commercial development on U- 111 and 7800 S. have been shrunk in
place of high density housing. For years we have been told that increasing roof-tops will bring in more business, however
the incredible growth over the last 10 years has actually been at the expense of our commercial zoning. Over and over
intended commercial areas have been rezoned to mostly High Density zoning, While the Future Land Map is meant to be
a fluid plan, with changes allowed as necessary, this trend defeats the purpose of the Future Land Map by creating an
imbalance of appropriate zones and amenities. This constant increase of higher density zones without infrastructure on
the west side has created an imbalance of amenities to households, with all residents having to travel East to get
groceries and other necessities. While we have been thrilled to see increased commercial come to the east-side of
Mountain View, we have watched our own Commercial Zones be re- zoned over and over. We implore the Planning
Commission to reject this proposal of removing Commercial Zoning from parcel# 20263010040000, and allow the area
to remain where Commercial Infrastructure can still be available to our community.




4) Adequate   School Infrastructure—   Unmet.




The overtaxing of our schools is a well- known problem here in the West part of West Jordan. Our elementary schools
are crowded with many portable classrooms on school properties, and Copper Hills High School has almost 2900
students. While we have learned that the city works independently from the School District in projections and funding,
we implore the Planning Commission to take into account the heavy burden the influx of potentially 1500 units from one
parcel would have on our school infrastructure.



                                                             4
These plans will increase density in our area to what appears to be an unreasonable and unbalanced amount. We
strongly urge the West Jordan Planning Commission to review and carefully consider what is best for the long- term
development of our area, and that such broad areas of high density be kept in check.




Finding F: The proposed amendment does not take into consideration West Jordan' s Cap and Grade
ordinance. A future land use designation of Very High density residential should not be considered
until the percentages      of the   cap and grade ordinance    are met. -   Unmet




We, the residents of the Maples at Jordan Hills, thank you for your time and URGE you as members of the West Jordan
Planning and Zoning Commission to vote against amending the Future Land Use Map for 86. 14- acres of land located
at 6170 West 7800 South,    parcel# 20263010040000.




                                                           5
Julie Davis

From:                       Tom La < thomasla23@gmail. com>
Sent:
                            Tuesday, April 19, 2022 3: 53 PM
To:                         Julie Davis
Subject:                    Public Comment: Bowman' s Arrow


Follow Up Flag:
                            Follow up
Flag Status:                Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.


Julie,


I am making comment on today' s agenda item for Bowman' s Arrow. Please make record
and please read the comment in today' s planning commission and zoning meeting.

I' d like to express my opposition to the future land use map amendment. The proposal to
bump up the density levels to existing zones and removal of commercial and green space
seems like a poor plan for the community. The existing infrastructure and and logistics is
already highly stressed and traffic is terrible. High- density housing has already been packed
in on the Southeast and Southwest quadrants of 7800 S and Mountain View. My concern with
increased high- density housing will be the increase in crime and increase in stress to our
already lacking infrastructure.

Mr. Bowman has addressed our community social media page stating that the density
designation of the different resident zones are not consistent from city to city and that West
Jordan is a step down in density range. If this is the case, West Jordan City needs to specially
address this inconsistency so there is no ambiguity in understanding the plan.

Another disappointment to the development of this community is the lack of commercial
development. First the Copper Rim plan west of the Smith' s wants to decrease commercial
from their original plan. Now the Bowman' s arrow plan also wants to strip any plans of
commercial development. The planning committee would be wise to follow the models that
South Jordan, Herriman, and Riverton have had for commercial along Mountain View
Corridor as those areas seem well planned and thriving.
Thanks,
Thomas La
Resident of West Jordan Maples Community

Sent from my iPhone




                                                      1
Julie Davis


From:                                  Allie L < aliisaleon@gmail. com>
Sent:                                  Tuesday, April 19, 2022 4: 11 PM
To:                                    Larry Gardner; Julie Davis; Mayor Burton; Council Comments; Mark Forsythe; Duncan
                                       Murray; Todd Johnson
Subject:                               04/ 19/ 22 Planning Commission Meeting and Public Hearing

Follow Up Flag:                        Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged


                                             30LtrnCh s /
CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.



Greetings,



I am writing to express my concerns over Agenda Item 5, The plan to amend West Jordan' s General Plan' s future land
use on the land known as Bowman' s Arrow. I wish I could attend in person to register my displeasure with this proposal
but I must attend a previously scheduled event for the Utah Coalition Against Sexual Assault.

I own a home in the Maple Hills neighborhood adjacent to Bowman' s Arrow. It is a pleasant, family- oriented
neighborhood with large residential lots. Its residents are well informed and pay close attention to local politics. We
vote in high numbers.       We vote in local general elections AND primaries.   We are well organized.


I' ve reviewed the current and proposed plans and maps for Bowman' s Arrow. The current mixed use plan is
reasonable.     Whereas, the proposal to amend it to include very high and ultra high density housing is absolutely
inconsistent with the current flavor of the neighborhood. West Jordan' s city planning has a history of being a
hodgepodge mess. This was one of the few pockets of nice residential homes within city limits that was not surrounded
by high density housing, ugly low grade commercial space, or industrial zones. I am livid that the City wants to make a
mess    of this area too.



Moreover, we do not have the infrastructure: roads, schools, water, etc. in place to support ultra high density residential
housing. Traffic is already an issue even outside of commuter hours. Traffic is routinely backed up at the crossroads by
the firehouse and the roundabout. I am aware of the plans to address these issues and they fall short of the current
needs let alone the future needs of the region even without the proposed amendment.


As someone who used to prosecute the crimes that occurred all too frequently within West Jordan City limits, I do not
want the crime and noise that comes with the high density residential expanding to the area I live. I sacrificed to pay a
premium to live in a nice area. Zoning and city planning should be consistent with the character of the existing
neighborhood.




It is disappointing the planning commission staff has opted to support this proposal, favoring the greed of one large
property owner over the well being and wishes of the hundreds of families that live adjacent to this property.

Best regards,
Aliisa N. Leon




                                                                  1
Julie Davis

From:
                                 Casey Dubbs < casey.dubbs@icloud. com>
Sent:
                                 Tuesday, April 19, 2022 4:24 PM
To:
                                 Larry Gardner; Julie Davis; Mayor Burton; Council Comments; Mark Forsythe; Duncan
                                 Murray; Todd Johnson
Subject:
                                 Bowman Project - No very high density
Follow   Up Flag:                Follow up
Flag Status:                     Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.


To the planning commission,

I understand these emails will be read out loud and will be expecting to hear this and others
and the meeting.

As a resident of Maple Hills and West Jordan, I am a very hard no on this proposed plan
change.



There are no positives I see within this plan to anyone but the developer and those who have
opportunity for financial gain.

Besides our streets water sewer and schools not being able to withstand that type of change
it is not creating the type of city we should be out west. Why cram more high density in just
because there is land to do so?


It will lower property values and increase crime.

Do better to clean up sidewalks weeds and run down lots and enforce our own city
ordinances to keep the city a respectable and clean place to live. So many in this area take
Mountain View down to south jordan and Herriman to shop because it is a vastly different
experience      and   so much   nicer.



Are we putting back into plans the rec center that was supposed to be built of 90? Why
aren' t we putting money into things for the residents that do generate city tax revenue?

The new plan not only adds way too much high density right off 78, but it removes the large
park area and commercial area which is what was adjacent to the main road. That is a
much classier and nice drive that to drive through high density apartments in both sides of
the road. While we are at it, why are there so many cars just parked off 78 at those
apartments on the gravel are right off the road? It' s been a year plus since that
development was out in. Was there not enough parking spaces? What a dump to drive by.

                                                          1
Some of those cars never even move. Why would I want two eye sores like that on both sides
of the street.


Hard no.


 Casey




                                             2
Julie Davis

From:
                                       Lise Letcher < liseletcher@gmail. com>
Sent:
                                       Tuesday, April 19, 2022 4:25 PM
To:                                    Julie Davis
Subject:                               Bowmans Arrow


Follow Up Flag:
                                       Follow up
Flag Status:                           Flagged




CAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the
sender and know the content is safe.


Dear Members of the Planning Commission and our council.
I live at 7503 S Bridge Maple Lane in Maples Hills. My yard backs up to 6400 w. I am very concerned about you moving
forward on the Bowmans Arrow project. I understand development has to happen, but why change the current
residential zoning to very high? The homes surrounding this area are anywhere from the$ 600, 000 to 1 million. Why do
you think that putting apartments and other" very high" density be a good idea? I would be concerned with not only the
obvious problems with 7800 traffic, but schools and things like the grocery store. All ready many of us are going out of
West Jordan to shop because other cities are easier to access and are not as crowded. I am also very concerned with
crime in a much higher density area than single family homes and townhomes. Frankly back in those fields there is quite
a few naughty things happening all ready.
 The resources in this area are severely deficient, and before any zoning considerations are reviewed, the current
infrastucu re need to be addressed first.
For the record I am opposed at this current time.

Thank you for your time.


Lise Letcher
801- 209- 0309
liseletcher@gmail. com




                                                                1
