MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD SEPTEMBER 7, 2021, INTHE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT: Trish Hatch, Kent Shelton, Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Corbin England, Ammon Allen,
and Pamela Bloom.

STAFF: Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Ray McCandless, Brian Berndt, Julie
Davis, Nathan Nelson, Paul Brockbank

OTHERS: Mayor Burton, Donald Foor (remotely), Pat Sartor (remotely), Ryan Mortensen
(remotely), Sharon Mckee (remotely), Gary Peck (remotely), Jason Nageli, Gary
Howland, Tina Franco, Jason Nageli, Bryon Prince, Alec Taylor, BJ Laterveer

KEKEKKREKREEKRRERERRE REE RERRE REE RRR RRR RR ERR RRR RRR RRR RR RRR ERR RRR RRR RRR RRERRERE

The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch and the agenda was reviewed. Clarifying
questions were answered.

3 2 9K 2 5K 2 3 2 oe of oe fe 2 a 2 a 2 oe a 2 a 2k 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 9 2 9 2 a a 2 2 9K 2 9 2 2 a 2 2 2 2A 92 a a 2 2 fo aa fe a a ak ok

The regular meeting was called to order at 6:00 p.m.
1. Approval of Minutes from August 3, 2021

MOTION: Corbin England moved to approve the minutes from August 3, 2021, as listed. The
motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7-0 in favor.

KRREKRRERERERRER RE RRR ERR RE REE RER RE REE RE RRR ERE RRR RRR ERR RRR RRR RRR RRR RR RRR RRR RRR RERE

Z. Pura Vita Senior Housing; 1978 West 9400 South; Preliminary Subdivision Plat,
Preliminary Site Plan (23 units and 2 parcels on 3.139 acres), and Preliminary
Development Plan; R-3-20 (SHO) Zone; HPI Land, LLC/Gary Howland, Tina Franco
(applicant) [#23452, 23453, 23454; parcels 27-03-351-012, 013]

Gary Howland, applicant, said the original approval was for 60 senior living apartments. Covid-19
made them take another look at the project. They felt that a 60-unit senior apartment complex would
potentially expose these seniors to Covid-19. The new product is more in line with what the neighbors
wanted from the start. They are excited about the project.

Tina Franco, applicant, said the 23-unit project will develop starting with three model units on 9400
South. Each unit will have two bedrooms and two full bathrooms. The options are for a full bedroom
and a den on the first floor with a basement bedroom and bathroom or for both bedrooms on the main
floor. The homes will be about 1560 square feet on each level. The plan is to use shaker and vertical
hardi-board with light colored stone and bronze colored metal facia. The amenities include a walkway
around the property, pickleball courts, and a picnic area with tables, pagoda, and grill. There will be
stormwater chambers in the driveway areas instead of a detention pond.

Ray McCandless said the new plan is for 23 units of senior housing. The R-3-20 zone allows for up to
20 units per acre, so this will be a good improvement to the area. He reviewed the layout. Three drive
approaches will serve as access from 1980 West. Each unit will have an attached two-car garage with
22 feet of driveway length, so there should be plenty of guest parking. The product is very similar to
the developments to the north and west.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 2

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary
Subdivision Plat subject to the conditions listed below and forward a favorable recommendation to the
City Council to approve the Preliminary Development Plan as discussed in the staff report.

1. The preliminary subdivision shall remain valid for one year following the date of approval (14-
3-8).

2. The proposed subdivision plat shall meet all applicable Zoning Ordinance requirements.

2. The development must meet all requirements of the Engineering and Fire Departments.

4. Approval of a Final Site Plan shall become null and void if development does not commence
within two (2) years of final site plan approval.

3 The development must comply with the Occupancy Restrictions as stated in City Code, Section
13-6H-6.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Paul Brockbank, West Jordan Fire Marshal, noted for the record that each home will be installed with
fire sprinklers to meet the exception of having a dead-end roadway longer than 150 feet.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: _ Kent Shelton moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary
Subdivision Plat subject to the conditions 1 through 5 listed in the report and
forward a favorable recommendation to the City Council to approve the
Preliminary Development Plan as discussed in the staff report. The motion was
seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7-0 in favor.

RRR KEE ERE REE EER RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RR RRR RRR ERR RRR RRR REE RRR REE RRR EEE

3. Oquirrh West; 7800 South New Sycamores Drive; Amended Development Plan for
Updated Building Elevations; P-C Zone; Oquirrh West II, LLC (applicant) [Ray
McCandless #24834; parcel 20-27-351-002; 20-28-476-001]

Jason Nageli, Holmes Homes, said the request is to update some elevations and to add some new plans
to reflect more of what is happening in the marketplace today. More specifically, they are adding more
material, more stone, additional gables and hardi-siding, and adding larger rear windows to add
integrity to the community.

Ray McCandless said if this is approved, it will update the master development plan that was approved
in 2013. Staff felt that the proposed elevations are similar in character and quality to the original
approvals, so there are no concerns.

Staff recommended the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
to amend the Oquirrh West development plan, updating the building elevations as requested by the
applicant.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 3

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council to amend the Oquirrh West
development plan, updating the building elevations as requested by the applicant.
The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7-0 in favor.

RREKKEKREEK REE RE REE REE RRR ER RRR RRR RRR RR RR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR

4. Jones Ranch Phase 1; 8720 South 6400 West; Preliminary Subdivision Plat (100 lots on
27.14 acres); P-C Zone; Ivory Development/Bryon Prince (applicant) [#23590; parcel 26-
03-200-004]

Trish Hatch disclosed that she is an employee of Ivory Employee Leasing and works for the Ivory
Foundation.

Bryon Prince, Ivory Development, said this is the first preliminary plat approval for Subarea 1 of Jones
Ranch. They have coordinated with staff and Salt Lake County Flood Control as it relates to the
stormwater that will be discharged into Barney’s Creek. They have also been coordinating with the
Jordan School District for right-of-way improvements along 9000 South along with stormwater
infrastructure. The design complies with the ordinance and the development agreement. The maps
show the location of the first subarea plan as it relates to Phase 1. There are two public right-of-way
connections in the first phase. The development agreement requires some flagship amenities, but none
of those will be built in this first phase. However, a portion of the trail in Barney’s Creek open space
area that spans for two miles beginning at 6400 West will be built as every phase of the development is
built.

Larry Gardner said it has been three years for Jones Ranch to get to this point. Ivory Development took
over a failed development and expanded it to the east. He felt that it will be a fine development of 600
acres under one developer. A master development plan and master development agreement was
approved by City Council, which set the design, density, major road networks, pedestrian networks,
and amenities. Subarea | contains a mixture of all land use designations that were approved within the
overall development. Sub-area 1 also includes the 13-acre park and the Club Ivory amenity that will be
built in a future phase.

Bryon Prince explained that the development agreement requires the pool to be completed prior to the
200" home and the clubhouse by the 400" home. Jones Ranch will have 2900 units, so they front-
loaded those amenities to give the City assurances and for good business practices for the residents.

Larry Gardner said the largest lot in Phase 1 will be over 18,000 square feet and the smallest will be a
1300 square foot townhome lot. Over the years, the Design Review Committee and the Planning
Commission have requested that the development be compatible with the existing residential uses, so
the larger lots will be closer to 6400 West. As development wraps around the school property, they
will be required to build 9000 South as detailed in the master development plan. He explained the
proposed house plans. Staff asked the developer to consider corner side front yards that will make a
nice appearance from the street. He showed the location of the portion of the trail that will be
constructed with this phase.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 4

Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
grant preliminary subdivision approval for Jones Ranch Phase 1; 8720 South 6400 West in the (PC)
Planned Community zone with the requirements listed below:

lL All current redlines from city staff are corrected.
The preliminary subdivision shall remain valid for one year following the date of approval (14-
3-8).

3. Final approval for Jones Ranch Phase | will not be granted until all storm drain concerns,

designs and modifications have been made to the satisfaction of the Engineering Division,
Public Works Department and Salt Lake County Flood Control.
4. Water availability for 100 lots within Jones Ranch Phase 1 is conditioned upon the
commencement of construction for the West Jordan Zone 5 water reservoir. Until such time
only 40 lots are determined to be serviceable with culinary water.
The proposed subdivision plat shall meet all applicable Zoning Ordinance requirements.
6. The preliminary and final subdivision plat must meet all zoning or subdivision standards and
requirements of the Engineering and Fire Departments.

se

Jay Thomas asked for clarification on how many homes can be constructed prior to the new water tank
and how much of the next phase will be supported by the new water tank.

Larry Gardner said that 40 homes can be built. As the water tank begins construction, they can issue
the next 60 permits. The new water tank will completely service the entire development.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Jay Thomas moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, to approve
the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for Jones Ranch Phase 1; 8720 South 6400 West
in the P-C (Planned Community) zone with the conditions 1 through 6 as listed in
the staff report. The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7-0 in
favor.

HRKKE KERR KR ER RRR RK ERR KERR RRR ER RRR RRR RRR RRR RR RRR RRR RRR RRR ERR RRR RRR REE RRR RRR EERE EE

5. Momentum Apartments; 3361 West Jordan Line Parkway; Preliminary Site Plan (243
units on 2.3 acres); P-C (TSOD) Zone; Jordan Valley Station VII, LLC (applicant) [#24456;
parcel 27-05-231-002]

Alec Taylor, Boulder Ventures Development, said that this is the next phase of Jordan Valley Station
TOD and next phase of the 25-year relationship of Boulder Ventures with the City of West Jordan.
They look forward to continuing building quality products and to help to improve and develop the
area.

BJ Laterveer, architect, said the intent was to bring forward a high-end, market rate project that West
Jordan can be proud of. It will include high-end materials and be designed in a way to have
architectural stature within the community. There are 243 units and 353 parking spaces in a 5-story
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 5

building. There are indoor and outdoor amenities that will bring elegance to the area. The project meets
the zoning and planned development criteria.

Brian Berndt gave an overview of the 243-unit apartment complex. The building will be up to six
stories on one section and five stories on the south section. Open space, density, and landscaping
requirements have been met. He addressed how the 323 parking stalls and 81 bike spaces are
distributed.

Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
approve the Preliminary Site Plan for Momentum Apartments development at Jordan Valley TOD
Building Lot 7 located at 3361 W. Jordan Line Parkway subject to the conditions contained below.

Preliminary Site Plan

Le All conditions of approval pertinent to this project from the Preliminary Development Plan
must be completed.

2. All conditions pertinent to this project from the Traffic Study for the Jordan Valley TOD must
be completed

3. The submitted plans are sufficient for preliminary approval only as to road locations and lot
layout. Preliminary approval is not intended to grant final approval of, and the drawings shown
on the plan set are deficient in, adopted Engineering Standards.

4, The development must comply with the applicable requirements of 2009 City Code.

5, All applicable city departmental requirements must be met prior to recordation of the final plat.

6. Update the Final Site Plan and engineering plans to address all existing and future planning,
engineering, fire, and all other City redline corrections pertaining to Momentum Apartments.

f, Before the final plan set are stamped for construction purposes by the West Jordan Engineering
Department, all Engineering requirements and redline comments shall be completely addressed.

8. An approved Preliminary Site Plan shall remain valid for one (1) year. One 6-month extension

may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the owner/developer,
the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the public health,
safety or welfare of the city.

9. An approved, unrecorded final site plan shall remain valid for two (2) years. One 6-month
extension may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the
owner/developer, the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the
public health, safety or welfare of the city.

10. Reduce the light standard height to 15 feet (including lamp, pole, and base) for all parking lot
lighting within 150 feet of a residential district per section13-12-6E of the Zoning Ordinance.

11. A photometric light plan shall be submitted with every final site and development plan to make
sure onsite lighting provides a safe and inviting pedestrian environment, while at the same time
not exceeding one foot-candle power at the property lines.

12. As shown in the Preliminary Development Plan Jordan Loop Lane, Station View Way, and
Jordan Line Parkway, adjacent to the apartments, will be constructed according to adopted
Engineering Standards and to the satisfaction of the City Engineering, Fire and Planning
Divisions.

Trish Hatch felt that 25 guest parking spaces seemed limited for that many apartment units. She asked
if there is room to park on the street.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 6

Brian Berndt said there is some parking on the street. He explained the parking requirements from the
code. The incentive for this type of project is the adjacent light rail, so hopefully people aren’t needing
multiple cars or to use a car as much.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Corbin England moved, based on the findings set forth in the staff report, and
upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the Preliminary
Site Plan for Momentum Apartments development at Jordan Valley TOD Building
Lot 7 located at 3361 W. Jordan Line Parkway subject to the conditions 1 through
12 as contained in the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and
passed 7-0 in favor.

RRREKEERE KERR REE RE R ER ER REE RRR ERR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR RRR ERE RRR RRR EERIE IIIS

6. Fall Oaks Subdivision; 6375 West Fall Oak Drive; Preliminary Subdivision Plat (10 lots
on 2.77 acres); P-C Zone; Four Elms Capital/Joe Colosimo (applicant) [#24489; parcel 20-
35-305-022]

Joe Colosimo, applicant, said the proposal is to develop the 2.77-acre abandoned detention basin as ten
single-family lots with an average of 3.6 units per acre.

Brian Berndt gave an overview of the proposed 10-lot subdivision. Lot sizes range from 7,800 to
11,500 square feet. The property originally had a detention basin, and the City Engineer has been
working with the applicant and found a solution for that.

Based on the analysis and findings contained in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning
Commission approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for Fall Oak Circle on approximately 2.77 acres
and containing 10 lots located at SEC of 6400 West and Fall Oaks Drive subject to the following
conditions:

1. All lots must comply with the applicable requirements of Title 13, Zoning Regulations and
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations including, but not limited to lot area, lot configuration, width
and frontage requirements.

2 All applicable city departmental requirements must be met prior to recordation of the final plat.

3. All structures constructed within the Fall Oaks Circle Subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance.

4. An approved preliminary subdivision plat shall remain valid for one (1) year. One 6-month

extension may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the
owner/developer, the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the
public health, safety or welfare of the city.

5: An approved, unrecorded final subdivision plat shall remain valid for two (2) years. One 6-
month extension may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the
owner/developer, the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the
public health, safety or welfare of the city.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
September 7, 2021
Page 7

Nathan Nelson said this detention basin was intended to be a temporary detention pond to handle areas
of the development until Oaks East Park was completed. Staff has determined that the Oaks East Park
is developed and contains enough capacity that the subject basin is not necessary. It is a goal of the
City to reduce orphaned pieces of property that need to be maintained, so the City does not have any
concerns with eliminating it.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Ryan Mortensen, West Jordan resident, said he lives behind the proposed subdivision, and he had only
seen water in the detention pond once in the last 10 years. He asked for clarification on the 20-foot
utility easement that surrounds the property.

Brian Berndt said there is an easement on the east and south sides of the project. Maintenance of that
property is the responsibility of each owner. Vertical construction is not allowed on the easement.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Pamela Bloom moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
Preliminary Subdivision Plat for Fall Oaks Circle on approximately 2.77 acres and
containing 10 lots located at the southeast corner of 6400 West and Fall Oaks
Drive subject to conditions 1 through 6 in the staff report. The motion was
seconded by Kent Shelton and passed 7-0 in favor.

Scott Langford clarified how existing and planned water tanks will be used for Jones Ranch and other
areas on the west side.

MOTION: Corbin England moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6:44 p.m. Hed >

a
Vice er

JULIE DAVIS

Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this A \ day of S tP teryteer— , 2021.

