MINUTES OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
HELD MAY 3, 2022, IN THE THOMAS M. REES JUSTICE CENTER COMMUNITY ROOM

PRESENT: Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Ammon Allen, and George
Winn.

STAFF: Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Mark Forsythe, Ray McCandless, Duncan Murray, Julie
Davis, Greg Davenport, Paul Brockbank

FEF III IKI KK KK KK IK KK II TKI KK KKK KR KKK KK RRR

The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. A spelling correction was made in the
minutes and clarifying questions on the agenda were answered. Greg Davenport gave an update on the
drought situation and possible restrictions.

FOO OOOO OGG IOR G OR SG GR IG I Gk a kok keke ok ke sk fe ok ok ak ok ok ake fe ok ake ak ake ak ake ak kek ak

The regular meeting was called to order at 6:00 p.m.

1. Consent Calendar
Approve Minutes from April 19, 2022

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved to approve the minutes from April 19, 2022 with the correction
noted in the pre-meeting. The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed
6-0 in favor.

FOO GO OOO GRO GRIGIO GI ICR ICI I feo 21 2 ak fe 2k ok 2k ak fe 2k ok 2 2k oof ak fe fea ake ake fe kee ae ake ake kek fe ake fe 2k ake ake ak ae

2. Bowman’s Arrow; 6170 West 7800 South; Future Land Use Map Amendment for 86.14
acres from Low Density Residential, Medium Density Residential, High Density
Residential, Community Commercial, Future Park, and Parks and Open Land to
Medium Density Residential, High Density Residential, Very High Density Residential
and Parks and Open Land; ARB Investments/Robert Bowman (applicant) [#20674;
parcel 20-26-301-004]

Jay Thomas opened discussion for this business item, which was tabled for a decision from the
previous meeting.

Matt Quinney felt that the City needs to retain commercial areas along the main arteries. Therefore, he
couldn’t support a plan that does not include some commercial/retail even though he thought that this
was a good location for some high and very high density residential.

Kent Shelton agreed that the biggest problem with the amendment is the lack of commercial. A
number of residents commented in the public hearing that they travel to other municipalities for dining
and shopping because the area is lacking. Very high density residential is a hard pill to swallow, but
this area is appropriate for at least some because of proximity to transportation arteries, even though
the area already bears a lot of that burden.

George Winn said that in reviewing the proposal against the required findings, in his judgment, the
proposal does not meet Findings A, C, or D so he was against the proposal.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2022
Page 2

Jay Thomas felt the same way and he would like to see a rough plan for infrastructure that shows how
increased traffic will be handled.

Kent Shelton didn’t feel that traffic was the issue because the request is only to amend the future land
use map. Roads will be upgraded to handle the traffic in the future.

Jay Thomas said that added traffic will come no matter how the property develops, but it would be
easier to manage a modest increase compared to a large increase.

Ammon Allen said he agreed with the same findings as Commissioner Winn. He liked the applicant’s
presentation that showed the need to look at the future land use on the entire west side of Mountain
View Corridor so we can understand what infrastructure is needed for the city and to make other
stakeholders aware. He hadn’t completed ruled out the suggestion that the proposal wouldn’t work, but
he would like to see commercial in the project or look at the broader picture to see where other
commercial areas are planned.

Kent Shelton agreed that this property and other large pieces in the area also need to be addressed with
an updated land use map.

Trish Hatch agreed with the comments regarding the findings of fact. She agreed that there are infill
problems, and the land use map needs to be updated but this is not the time. She agreed that there is a
need for more commercial, and they need to understand how transportation and other infrastructure fits
together. She was also against the proposal.

MOTION: George Winn moved, based on the findings A, C, and D that are not met, to
forward a negative recommendation regarding this amendment to the General
Plan's Future Land Use Map for Bowman’s Arrow to the City Council. The
motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 6-0 in favor.

[Additional explanation of the motion occurred after the last agenda item.|

Matt Quinney asked Commissioners Winn and Hatch to elaborate on the negative findings cited in the
motion for Item #2 Bowman’s Arrow.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved to suspend the rules to add an explanation of the findings.
The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 6-0 in favor.

Duncan Murray said that it is appropriate to identify specific documents, facts, or information in the
staff report or discussion in the public hearing that relate to the findings in the motion.

George Winn stated that his conclusion that Finding A, Goal 2 that reads “no negative impact will be
created to the neighborhood or city because of the proposed change” has not been met because the
public who commented at the meeting expressed that there would be a negative impact to them.
Finding C that reads “the proposal has to be compatible with other land uses in the vicinity” has not
been met because they heard during the hearing that the change was not compatible with other land
uses in the vicinity. Finding D that reads “the proposal must be an overall improvement to the
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2022
Page 3

neighborhood” has not been met again because the citizens’ comments stated, and he felt, that it was
not an improvement to the neighborhood.

Duncan Murray understood that Commission Winn’s decision was based a lot upon the comments at
the public hearing.

George Winn said his motion reflected the public comments as well as his personal judgment.

Trish Hatch said her biggest concern was Finding E that reads “the proposed amendment will not
adversely impact the neighborhood and community as a whole by significantly altering acceptable land
uses, infrastructure, expense of public infrastructure improvements, etc.”. It has been proven in the
findings that we have to build infrastructure to service the proposal with water. The increase to high
density will increase traffic, and road infrastructure is not yet built. Once they see what the area will
look like then they can decide what type of housing makes sense. She agreed that this is an appropriate
place for high and very high density, but she would like to see how it is going to be built up around the
area before they move forward. She didn’t feel that the proposal was fleshed out enough to provide
what they are looking for. Regarding Finding D as being an overall improvement to the adopted
general plan land use, it is hard to determine because in some ways the land use map is outdated and
needs to be improved, but she didn’t agree that this is the right approach.

George Winn asked if considering streets and utilities mentioned in Commissioner Hatch’s comments
on Finding E are within the Commission’s purview.

Larry Gardner said how the land use map affects those things is within their purview. He felt that the
applicant had been given satisfactory justification of the motion.

RSCG IO IO IGRI IO IO IO OR IO OR ORIG OR ORO OG IO ROO OO GIORGI ICI ke aoR Ik I ka ake a ae a ak

3. West Jordan Medical Partners; 5459 West 7800 South; Preliminary Site Plan and
Conditional Use Permit for Medical Services; P-C Zone; Fort Street Partners/James
Balderson (applicant) (#26552; parcel 20-36-134-002]

Heather Lewellen, Fort Street Partners, gave an overview of the proposed one-story medical office
building that is 18,000 square feet in size. Two leases have been signed at this point. The building
backs onto 7800 South with parking and the main entrance on the south. The architecture is designed
to look nice from all sides. Building height is 18 feet at the tallest parapet wall. Materials are EFIS,
brick, aluminum siding to mimic wood, and glass. There is cross access between the building to the
west and to the vacant property to the east, but the main access is from Ranches Loop Road. They are
also requesting a conditional use permit for medical services and feel that this addition will enhance
the health and safety of the community. Medical use is in line with the purposes of the general plan and
is compatible with the surrounding uses.

Ray McCandless said the proposed medical office is within the Planned Community zone located on a
major arterial street and includes good cross access with the neighboring properties. Staff felt that it
fits in well with other buildings regarding height and design.

Regarding a question of future expansion of 7800 South, Nathan Nelson stated that the road is already
built to the final width and will serve future needs.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2022
Page 4

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional
Use Permit for Medical Services for the West Jordan Medical Partners office located at 5459 West
7800 South in a P-C zone subject to the Requirements of Site Plan Approval and Conditional Use
Permit approval conditions listed below:

Requirements of Site Plan Approval

1. An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
approval.

2. Approval ofa final site plan shall become null and void if development does not commence within
two (2) years of the approval.

3 The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
4. The development shall meet all requirements of the Engineering and Fire departments.
5. All rooftop mechanical equipment must be screened from adjoining properties and streets.

Conditional Use Permit approval conditions:

1. Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
Engineering approval.
2. Any appeals to the decision of the Planning Commission may be made to the Board of

Adjustment within thirty (30) days pursuant to City Code, Section 15-5-3.
Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for the West Jordan
Medical Partners office located at 5459 West 7800 South in a P-C zone subject to
the Requirements of Site Plan Approval 1 through 5 listed on Page 2 of the staff
report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 6-0 in favor.

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for Medical Services
for the West Jordan Medical Partners office located at 5459 West 7800 South in a
P-C zone subject to the Conditional Use Permit approval conditions 1 and 2 listed
on Page 2 of the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and
passed 6-0 in favor.

of 2 2K 2 ok oie kok ke 9 oie oie oe oe oe oo ko ko ko oko ok ok oi ok ok 2 9 2 ok 2 9 2 oe ok oe ok oe ok 2k ok koe ok 2k eo ko eo oe oe 2k oi ko oo oe ok ok ok

4. Ortega Property; 1875 West 7800 South; Future Land Use Map Amendment for 0.39
acres from Parks and Open Lands to Professional Office and Rezone from R-1-8A

(Single-family residential 8,000 square foot lots minimum) Zone to P-O (Professional
Office) Zone; Efrain Ortega (applicant) [#26940, 26941; parcel 21-34-126-011]

Efrain Ortega, applicant, said the request is to change the zoning to professional office to match the
current uses in the area. The property is not compatible with residential uses due to its location on 7800
South. He would like to use the existing building for small professional offices for rent, similar to
those in the area. When asked if he would have a residential use along with the offices, he said that his
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2022
Page 5

idea was to rent the basement for short term residential and use the top as offices. However, if that isn’t
allowed then he would use the whole property as professional offices.

Larry Gardner explained the area and surrounding uses. There are three structures that were built as
houses on the south side of 7800 South. The properties to the north are former homes that have been
converted into insurance offices as well as the home to the east. Although the applicant has expressed
a proposal for offices, any allowed use in the P-O zone would be available to him. The current land use
map shows the three homes on the south within the parks and open lands designation, which might
have been intended for park expansion at one time. However, he thought that small offices would work
better than a park for this property. The proposal is to change the land use map and zoning of the
applicant’s property to professional office. The property to the east is already zoned P-O. He proposed
an alternate motion that would recommend amending the land use map for all three properties to
professional office and rezoning the Ortega property only to P-O.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: _ Kent Shelton moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council to amend the future land use map on
.81 acres of property located at 1897 West 7800 South, 1875 West 7800 South, and
1871 West 7800 South from Parks and Open Land to Professional Office. The
motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 6-0 in favor.

MOTION: Kent Shelton moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council for Ortega Property to Rezone .39
acres of property located at 1875 West 7800 South from R-1-8A (Single-family
residential 8,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone to P-O (Professional Office) Zone.
The motion was seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 6-0 in favor.

fe fe fe oe ake ok ake oe fe fe fe oe oe oi oo 2 ao ok oo Ro 2K oe 2 2 A fee ee 2 2 oe ef 2 ee ie he eo oe ae oR oo eR RK OK OK KK

5. Text Amendment - Drought Management Plan Update; Amend the 2009 West Jordan
City Code Title 9, Chapter 6, Sections 1 through 8 (Utilities, Drought Management); city-
wide applicability; City of West Jordan (applicant) [#27099]

Greg Davenport, West Jordan Utility Manager, reviewed proposed updates in Title 9. The City Council
provided feedback for this amendment in a work session and included concerns regarding how inside
watering restrictions would affect businesses and concerns with unfair enforcement practices. It was
determined that enforcement will follow the current code. He reviewed the proposed drought stages for
outdoor watering in the Drought Management Plan, which better match those from the Jordan Valley
Water Conservancy District.

Staff recommended approval of this text amendment for the Drought Management Plan Update.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 3, 2022
Page 6

George Winn asked who determines when there is a drought and at what stage it is.

Greg Davenport said the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy Board does since that is where we get 95%
of our water. The Board meets in April with all of the water suppliers, and they vote in May and let the
communities know what the requirements are, for example to save 5% during the affected months of
May, June, July, and August.

Ammon Allen appreciated the direction that the plan gives and with the recent change in landscaping
this is a good start to conservation. He asked if commercial businesses are alerted any differently than
residential.

Greg Davenport said in a stage 3 or 4 the city would require a business to save a certain amount
compared to their previous usage. However, in a stage | or 2 the tier pricing system acts as a penalty of
sorts for overwatering.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council for this application regarding
amendments to Title 9. The motion was seconded by George Winn and passed 6-0
in favor.

RRR KEEK

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

Gap Vix —

JAY THOMAS
Chair

The meeting adjourned at 6:53 p.m.

9 Sa ) 5
JULIE DAVIS

Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

4th
Approved this __/ "4 si day of yt aad ik , 2022

