MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION HELD SEPTEMBER 21, 2021, IN THE WEST JORDAN COUNCIL CHAMBERS


PRESENT:             Matt Quinney, Kent Shelton, Corbin England, Ammon Allen, Pamela Bloom, and Jay
                     Thomas ( remotely).   Trish Hatch was excused.


STAFF:               Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray

The briefing meeting was called to order by Matt Quinney and the agenda was reviewed. Assistant
City Attorney Duncan Murray provided training from Utah Code on entitlements/ vesting.

The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.       Consent Calendar
A.       Approval of Minutes from September 7, 2021


B.       Test Utah; 8000 South Redwood Road; Temporary Use Permit ( 150 days) for Covid
         Testing; P- F Zone; City of West Jordan ( applicant) I# 25223; parcel 21- 34- 128- 020]

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Temporary Use Permit for Test Utah;
8000 South Redwood Road in a P- F zone, with the Conditions of Approval listed below.


1.       The business activities shall be consistent with the application and site plan.
2.       The Temporary Use Permit is valid from September 22, 2021, through February 21, 2022.
3.       Testing container shall be stationed as shown on site plan.
4.       The site shall be kept free of trash and debris at all times.
5.       All medical waste shall be properly contained and disposed of in accordance with all applicable
         County, State and Federal health requirements.
6.       The container shall be locked when not in use.
7.       The container, trash cans, sign( s) and all associated equipment, shall be completely removed
         from the site when the Temporary Use Permit expires. The site shall be fully restored to its
         original condition within 5 days of permit expiration.


MOTION:              Corbin England moved to approve the Consent Calendar as listed in the packet.

                     The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 6- 0 in favor. Trish Hatch
                     was   absent.




MOTION:              Pamela Bloom moved to adjourn.


The meeting adjourned at 6: 01 p. m.

                                                    TRISH   HATCH
                                                    Chairr
      TES :
                                                                                  r:       .•
J .   IE DAVIS
Executive     Assistant

Community Development Department

                                                                                          Sp
                                                 0r

                                                                                   1,,,
Approved      this
                       S         day of    0c,+                           2021.
                                                                                           7t
Effective      5/ 5/ 2021

10- 9a- 509 Applicant'         s entitlement        to land   use   application   approval --   Municipality' s requirements and
limitations--       Vesting upon submission of development plan and schedule.
 1)

      a)

           i) An applicant who has submitted             a complete      land use application    as described    in Subsection ( 1)( c),

           including the payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive review oft a application under
           the land use regulations:
              A) in effect on the date that the application is complete; and
              B) applicable to the application or to the information shown on the application.
           ii) An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application               if the application conforms to the

           requirements of the applicable land use regulations, land use decisions, and development standards in
           effect when the applicant         submits a complete         application   and pays application      fees, unless:

               A) the land use authority, on the record, formally finds that a compelling, countervailing public
              interest would be jeopardized by approving the application and specifies the compelling,
              countervailing     public interest in writing; or
              B) in the manner provided by local ordinance and before the applicant submits the application, the
              municipality formally initiates proceedings to amend the municipality' s land use regulations in a
              manner that would          prohibit   approval    of the application    as submitted.

       b) The municipality shall process an application without regard to proceedings the municipality initiated to
      amend the municipality' s ordinances as described in Subsection ( 1)( a)( ii)( B) if:
          i) 180 days have passed since the municipality initiated the proceedings; and
            ii) the proceedings     have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits approval of the application                    as
           submitted.


      c) A land use application is considered submitted and complete when the applicant provides the
      application in a form that complies with the requirements of applicable ordinances and pays all applicable
      fees.

      d) A subsequent incorporation of a municipality or a petition that proposes the incorporation of a
      municipality does not affect a land use application approved by a county in accordance with Section
      17- 27a- 508.

       e) The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is conditioned upon the applicant
      proceeding after approval to implement the approval with reasonable diligence.
       f) A municipality may not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete application a requirement
      that is not expressed        in:

            i) this chapter;

            ii) a municipal    ordinance;    or

            iii) a municipal specification        for public improvements         applicable to a subdivision     or development     that is
           in effect on the date that the applicant submits an application.

       g) A municipality may not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit or a final, unexpired subdivision
      plat a requirement        that is not expressed:

            i) in a land use permit;
            ii) on the subdivision plat;

            iii) in a document on which the land use permit or subdivision plat is based;

            iv) in the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision plat;
            v) in this chapter; or

            vi) in a municipal ordinance.

       h) Except    as provided      in Subsection ( 1)( i),    a municipality may not withhold issuance of a certificate of
      occupancy or acceptance of subdivision improvements because of an applicant' s failure to comply with a
      requirement       that   is not    expressed:
           i) in the building permit or subdivision plat, documents on which the building permit or subdivision plat
          is based, or the written record evidencing approval of the land use permit or subdivision plat; or
          ii) in this chapter or the municipality' s ordinances.
     i) A municipality may not unreasonably withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy where an applicant
     has met all requirements essential for the public health, public safety, and general welfare of the occupants,
     in accordance      with this chapter, unless:

          i) the applicant and the municipality have agreed in a written document to the withholding of a
          certificate of occupancy; or
          ii) the applicant has not provided a financial assurance for required and uncompleted landscaping or
          infrastructure improvements in accordance with an applicable ordinance that the legislative body adopts
          under this chapter.

2) A municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use regulations and shall comply
with mandatory provisions of those regulations.
 3) A municipality may not, as a condition of land use application approval, require a person filing a land use
application to obtain documentation regarding a school district' s willingness, capacity, or ability to serve the
development        proposed     in the land use application.
4)

     a) Except as provided in Subsection ( 4)( b), for a period of 10 years after the day on which a subdivision plat
     is recorded, a municipality may not impose on a building permit applicant for a single-family dwelling
     located within the subdivision any land use regulation that is enacted within 10 years after the day on which
     the subdivision     plat is recorded.

     b) Subsection ( 4)( a) does not apply to any changes in the requirements of the applicable building code,
     health code, or fire code, or other similar regulations.

5) Upon a specified public agency' s submission of a development plan and schedule as required in Subsection
10- 9a- 305( 8) that complies with the requirements of that subsection, the specified public agency vests in the
municipality' s applicable land use maps, zoning map, hookup fees, impact fees, other applicable development
fees, and land use regulations in effect on the date of submission.
6)

     a)   If sponsors   of a referendum      timely challenge   a project   in   accordance   with   Subsection   20A- 7- 601( 5), the

     project' s affected owner may rescind the project' s land use approval by delivering a written notice:
          i) to the local clerk as defined in Section 20A- 7- 101; and

          ii) no later than seven days after the day on which a petition for a referendum is determined sufficient
          under Subsection    20A- 7- 607( 4).

     b) Upon delivery of a written notice described in Subsection ( 6)( a) the following are rescinded and are of no
     further force or effect:
          i) the relevant land use approval; and

          ii) any land use regulation enacted specifically in relation to the land use approval.

Amended by Chapter 140, 2021 General Session
Amended by Chapter 385, 2021 General Session
Effective 3/ 24/ 2020
10- 9a- 509. 5 Review for application                  completeness--      Substantive application      review--    Reasonable diligence
required         for determination      of   whether        improvements      or   warranty   work   meets   standards--   Money damages
claim prohibited.

1)

      a) Each municipality shall, in a timely manner, determine whether a land use application is complete for the
     purposes of subsequent, substantive land use authority review.
      b) After a reasonable period of time to allow the municipality diligently to evaluate whether all objective
     ordinance- based application criteria have been met, if application fees have been paid, the applicant may in
     writing request that the municipality provide a written determination either that the application is:
           i) complete for the purposes of allowing subsequent, substantive land use authority review; or
           ii) deficient with respect to a specific, objective, ordinance- based application requirement.
      c) Within 30 days of receipt of an applicant' s request under this section, the municipality shall either:
           i) mail a written notice to the applicant advising that the application is deficient with respect to a
          specified, objective, ordinance- based criterion, and stating that the application shall be supplemented by
          specific additional     information          identified   in the notice; or

           ii) accept the application as complete for the purposes of further substantive processing by the land use
          authority.

     d) If the notice required by Subsection ( 1)( c)( i) is not timely mailed, the application shall be considered
     complete, for purposes of further substantive land use authority review.
     e)


          i) The applicant may raise and resolve in a single appeal any determination made under this Subsection
           1) to the appeal authority, including an allegation that a reasonable period of time has elapsed under
          Subsection ( 1)( a).

          ii) The appeal authority shall issue a written decision for any appeal requested under this Subsection
           1)( e).

     f)

          i) The applicant may appeal to district court the decision of the appeal authority made under Subsection
          1)( e).

          ii) Each appeal under Subsection ( 1)( f)(i) shall be made within 30 days of the date of the written decision.
2)

     a) Each land use authority shall substantively review a complete application and an application considered
     complete        under   Subsection (    1)( d),    and shall approve or deny each application with reasonable diligence.
     b) After a reasonable period of time to allow the land use authority to consider an application, the
     applicant may in writing request that the land use authority take final action within 45 days from date of
     service of the written        request.

     c) Within 45 days from the date of service of the written request described in Subsection ( 2)( b):
          i)   except   as provided   in Subsection ( 2)( c)( ii),
                                                                       the land use authority shall take final action, approving or
          denying the application; and
          ii) if a landowner petitions for a land use regulation, a legislative body shall take final action by approving
          or denying the petition.
     d) If the land      use   authority    denies      an application    processed     under the    mandates   of Subsection (   2)( b),   or if

     the applicant has requested a written decision in the application, the land use authority shall include its
     reasons for denial in writing, on the record, which may include the official minutes of the meeting in which
     the decision was rendered.

      e) If the land use authority fails to comply with Subsection ( 2)( c), the applicant may appeal this failure to
     district court within 30 days of the date on which the land use authority is required to take final action
     under Subsection ( 2)( c).

3)
    a) With reasonable diligence, each land use authority shall determine whether the installation of required
   subdivision improvements or the performance of warranty work meets the municipality' s adopted
   standards.

   b)

        i) An applicant may in writing request the land use authority to accept or reject the applicant' s
        installation of required subdivision improvements or performance of warranty work.
        ii) The land use authority shall acceptSubsection
        an   applicant' s written request
                                                or reject (subdivision
                                            under              b)(3)(
                                                                       improvements within 15 days after receiving
                                                                         i),
                                                                               or as soon as practicable after that 15- day
        period if inspection of the subdivision improvements is impeded by winter weather conditions.
        iii) The land use authority shall accept or reject the performance of warranty work within 45 days after
     receiving     an   applicant' s written request   under   Subsection ( 3)( b)( i),   or as soon as practicable   after that
     45- day period if inspection of the warranty work is impeded by winter weather conditions.
   c) If a land use authority determines that the installation of required subdivision improvements or the
  performance of warranty work does not meet the municipality' s adopted standards, the land use authority
  shall comprehensively and with specificity list the reasons for the land use authority' s determination.
4) Subject to Section 10- 9a- 509, nothing in this section and no action or inaction of the land use authority
relieves an applicant' s duty to comply with all applicable substantive ordinances and regulations.
 5) There shall be no money damages remedy arising from a claim under this section.
Amended by Chapter          126, 2020 General Session
