MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING ( ELECTRONIC) OF THE WEST JORDAN
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION HELD REMOTELY ON APRIL 6, 2021
PRESENT:            Trish Hatch, Jay Thomas, Corbin England, Ammon Allen, Pamela Bloom, Kent
                    Shelton, Matt Quinney


STAFF:              Larry Gardner, Lisa Elgin, Greg Davenport, Todd Johnson, Duncan Murray, Julie
                    Davis, Brian Clegg

OTHERS:             Geoff Fishel, Ted Kearl, Mayor Burton, Tammy, Quin Denning, Bryson Pulver, Gary
                    Montanez, phone ending in 1557, Julie and Jeff Hacking, Ken Ivory, Carol Peacock, bb,
                     Christie Hardey, Iruoti, Zach Jacob, Jim Holbrook


Trish Hatch read the statement regarding Utah Code 52- 4- 207( 4).

The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions were answered. A number of emails and/or phone calls were received ahead of the meeting
and will be acknowledged in the meeting. The conditional use process and State Law regarding
conditional uses were reviewed. A review of Utah Constitution regarding property damage by a
municipality was also explained.



The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 01 p.m.

 Trish Hatch read the statement regarding Utah Code 52- 4- 207(4).
 1.         Consent Items
             Approve Minutes from March 16, 2021

 MOTION:                 Ammon Allen moved to approve the minutes from March 16, 2021 as contained in
                         the packet. The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.

 2.          Suds &       Soda; 2514 West 7800 South; Preliminary and Final Site Plan and Conditional
                                                  Fast Food;   C- G Zone; Suds &        Soda Carwash/ Bryson Pulver
             Use Permit for Restaurant,

              applicant) 1# 22095, 22968; parcel 21- 28- 455- 014, 044]
 The applicant was having difficulty connecting for a presentation.

  Lisa Elgin integrated some of the questions from neighbors as she presented the application. A six-foot
  masonry will be installed on the east and north and property lines, ending at the tunnel wall. It will
  have a 3- foot retaining wall underneath the masonry wall next to residential uses. She explained the
  traffic pattern for accessing the carwash and soda shack. Hours are listed as Monday through Saturday
  from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Sunday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., which fall in line with the Salt Lake County
  noise ordinance. No mechanical equipment will be allowed to run at night, such as compressors. New
  elevations were shown that show trash enclosure and vacuum  building materials. The top of the tunnel
                                                         South is 26' 5". The yellow lettering on the
  is 16 feet high, but the front        of the   building facing 7800
                                                                                        of the             wall was shown,
                                      under the           and canopies.   A rendering            masonry
      elevations   are   LED lights               eaves
Planning&   Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 6, 2021
Page 2



and it is required that the wall will be stained on both the commercial and residential sides. The
landscape plan shows a 20- foot buffer on the north and east sides. The detention pond is within the east
buffer. The trash enclosure encroaches into the landscape buffer, but the zoning administrator has
approved    the location because it is less than 2% of the landscape            area. Elevations shown to the Design
Review Committee had two or three windows on the west building wall, but the Committee asked for
added windows as a suggestion in order to meet the intent of the code that there be projections or
recesses for every 50 feet of wall plane. That wall is approximately 154 feet long. New elevations
show the added windows. The Planning Commission can make changes or have the applicant just
comply with the code.


Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the conditional use permit and preliminary
and   final site plan for Suds &      Soda located at 2514 West 7800 South with the conditions of approval
listed below.


Conditional Use Permit
1.       The hours of operation will be 7: 00 a.m. to 10: 00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday and from
         9: 00 a.m. to 6: 00 p.m. on Sunday only. No mechanical equipment will be run outside the
         normal operating hours.
2.       The applicant shall prepare an operating plan to address traffic mitigation if the stacking line
         for the soda shack exceeds capacity during grand opening time or for special events or offers
         which   will   attract   an above   average   number   of customers.




Site Plan
1.       All redlined comments made by staff shall be addressed to its satisfaction before pre-
         construction meeting is to be scheduled.
2.       The six- foot masonry wall shall be the same type and color on both the commercial side and
         the residential      side.

3.       A UDOT encroachment permit shall be obtained prior to any work in the 7800 South right-
         of-way.


Kent Shelton asked if the windows are functional or decorative.


Lisa Elgin said they are decorative.

Matt Quinney wondered if there could be something additional, so it doesn' t look like the bare
minimum.




Ken Ivory, representing the applicant, understood that building wall will be covered by a fence, so it
won' t be as visible from the road.


Lisa Elgin pointed out that on every site plan that has been submitted, the fence stops at the tunnel
entrance. The property to the west is Affordable Landscaping, which has the same property owner.

Pamela Bloom said she is part of the Design Review Committee and is okay with the new elevations
compared     to the initial    submittal.
Planning&         Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April   6, 2021
Page 3



Ammon Allen was concerned with the site lighting on such a deep lot from a nighttime safety
standpoint. He asked how it will be illuminated for safety while staying dim for the neighbors. He was
particularly concerned with the vacuum area.

Ken Ivory said that LED lights can be dialed to whatever is needed.

Lisa Elgin said all of the buildings have LED lights.


Quin Denning said there are two overhead lights in the center of the property one at the north and one
at the south end of the vacuum stalls, which are shown on the photometric plan. The two poles will be
adequate to light that area.


Ammon Allen felt better about the lighting situation, but he asked if the condition of approval would
prohibit equipment maintenance outside of business hours. He asked if stacking for the snack shack
was     adequate.




Lisa Elgin said they cannot run the equipment outside of the County noise ordinance hours, which
coincides with business hours. Stacking for the snack shack is six spaces, which have been provided.
They have to write a traffic management plan for special events and such to mitigate the traffic if the
soda shop becomes popular.

Ammon Allen asked for clarification on the final site elevation in relation to the neighbors to the north
and     east.




Lisa Elgin said the site is three feet higher, so there is a 3- foot tall retaining wall and 6- foot tall
masonry wall on top of that.


Larry Gardner clarified that in the C- G zone there is a zero side yard setback when adjacent to another
commercial          zone. The maximum height of a light pole is 15 feet because it is near the residential          area.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Gary Montanez, West Jordan resident, said he lives just to the east of the project. His major concern is
that Affordable Lawn Care has never followed any of the City rules before, so the question is if he will
follow the rules for this project. He listed the violations dealing with noise, vehicles, paving, dumping
dirt without permits, etc. He said that most carwashes close at 8 or 9 at night. The dumpster that is
located next to his bedroom         window   will   be emptied   at   2 - 3 a. m. He said that the wall should be

installed prior to any construction to mitigate noise and protect their properties from construction
activities. He also pointed out a sliver of property between his home and the subject parcel that belongs
to Salt Lake County, which is not shown on the plat.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


There was a brief discussion about operating hours. Ten o' clock p.m. seems to be later than most.
There is nothing in the code that would keep them from having later hours other than the noise
ordinance unless a condition regarding hours of operation is imposed as part of the conditional use
permit     to mitigate    any detrimental impact.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 6, 2021
Page 4




Lisa Elgin said that installation of the wall prior to construction could be a condition of approval. She
explained that the 3- foot remainder parcel between the properties is owned by Salt Lake County, which
is not willing to sell. Similar situations exist throughout the city.

Larry Gardner said those types of parcels are generally surveyors' gaps. When big field surveys were
laid out years ago gaps were created because there is a curve to the land. Generally, there is no
ownership. Salt Lake County has retained ownership of this parcel, so it may have been part of an
easement or right- of-way from years ago. However, that parcel shouldn' t impact this development if
the applicant is staying on their own property.

Trish Hatch was concerned with how that area would be maintained.


Jay Thomas said he would like to see a stronger plan on how to alleviate traffic backing onto 7800
South.



The Dutch Bros management plan was discussed. They hired extra employees to direct cars to
eliminate large gaps. Some commissioners didn' t think there would be the same issues with this
business outside of special promotions     because it isn' t a first location in the state for a national brand.

Others expressed concerns with stacking for the soda shack based on experience at other soda
businesses that have up to 14 cars at a time.

There was a discussion about any other possible locations for the dumpster. It can' t be next to the road
according to code. Trash pickup during business hours only was suggested.

The wall/ retaining wall was discussed. Points raised included maintenance on the residential side and
the possibility of moving the wall into the property three feet for maintenance access. The property
owner will maintain their own side of the fence. There shouldn' t be a problem accessing the retaining
wall for repairs. It is a typical practice to put the wall on the property line.

Quin Denning said the requested hours of operation will give them leeway for the carwash to be open
as long as there is sunlight. They intend for the soda shack to be open during those hours and there are
lights provided. Wall height, vacuum enclosures, and added trees and vegetation will help to mitigate
noise and light impacts.


Ken Ivory said it is a deep lot and extra carwash lanes can be used for the soda shack overflow. Dutch
Bros is open until 11 pm. He pointed out that the noisiest elements of the operation have been placed

near 7800 South and/ or enclosed in a building. He felt that staff had already provided for reasonable
mitigation.




Kent Shelton asked how a condition on the hours for dumpster pickup would affect the ability of car
stacking. He is concerned about the neighbors being disturbed, but he was also concerned with the
safety of those in the stacking queue.

Quin Denning said it would be difficult for a big truck to pick up and turn around if cars are in the
stacking lanes, because it takes all three lanes. Stopping carwash traffic could pose a hazard. However,
they would do their best to work around that if it were a condition.      He   offered   to add more   trees in that
Planning&         Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April   6, 2021
Page 5



area to buffer and deaden the noise. Trash pickup could come earlier in the winter. He said that fence
panels can be lifted out if the retaining wall ever needs maintenance.

Recommendations from the Commissioners were that mature evergreen style trees are added in the
corner to produce a sound buffer. Also, that the wall be installed prior to construction.


Quin Denning said they want to get the site built up and the retaining wall installed immediately after
the permit is issued, which will protect everyone.


Trish Hatch said she hopes they are successful, which may bring some traffic issues, especially during
their opening. She wanted to make the applicant aware of the need to have adequate staff on hand to
handle the cars and to have a traffic plan in place as it states in the conditions.


Quin Denning said there is a correction to the staff presentation. The west wall goes the whole length
of the property and does not stop at the building.

There was a discussion by the Commission regarding that statement and if the additional windows
were necessary on the west wall since they would be covered. The Commission had made an
adjustment for a project in a similar situation. It was pointed out that the Design Review Committee
was of the understanding that the wall stopped at the building when they made the condition for added
windows.




MOTION:               Trish Hatch moved to approve the Preliminary and Final Site Plan for Suds &
                       Soda located at 2514 West 7800 South in the C- G ( General Commercial)             Zone
                      District subject to the conditions of approval 1 through 3 listed in the staff report,
                       adding:
                      4.       Install additional   evergreen    trees in the 20- foot buffer near the trash
                               dumpster.

                       5.      The retaining and masonry wall be installed before construction.
                       6.      Remove the condition to add extra windows to the west elevation [ because
                               the masonry wall extends the entire length on the west property line].
                       The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney.

Ammon Allen was still in favor of requiring the dumpster to be emptied only during business hours.

Matt Quinney was opposed to the recommended amendment because it would be unsafe for customers
and unfair if it interferes with business operations. He felt that once things get going this carwash will
follow the model of others regarding operating hours.

VOTE:                  The motion passed 5- 2 in favor with Jay Thomas and Ammon Allen casting the
                       negative votes




MOTION:                Trish   Hatch   moved   to approve the Conditional      Use Permit for Suds &    Soda

                       located at 2514 West 7800 South in the C- G ( General Commercial) Zone District
                       subject to the conditions of approval 1 and 2 listed in the staff report. The motion
                       was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 5- 2 in favor with Ammon Allen and
                       Jay Thomas      casting the negative     votes.
Planning&       Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 6, 2021
Page 6




3.       West Jordan            Water   Communications Tower— Sycamores;
                                                                   approximately 7049 West 7800
         South; Conditional Use Permit for 100- foot Communications Pole; P- C Zone; City of
         West Jordan Public Works/ Greg Davenport ( applicant) I# 23631; parcel 20- 34- 101- 008]

Greg Davenport, West Jordan Utility Manger, described the proposed Advanced Metering
Infrastructure Tower, which is 100 feet tall with a 7- inch radius at the base getting smaller at the top.
He showed a photo of the tower at a site at New Bingham Highway taken from the residential
neighborhood 700 feet away. They are licensed with the FCC and are similar to a police or fire
scanner. Water meter data is collected and reported back to the city. This network is safe, secure, and
more efficient. In the future this will allow customers to monitor online their water usage and to set
alerts for things such as large spikes or leaks. Other poles are located at Veteran' s Park within 450 feet
of residential and at 6701 West New Bingham Highway 800 feet from residential. He explained that
other sites were considered prior to this. The FCC would not license the facility for property at SR- 111
and 7800 South or any other location on the 7800 South corridor east of SR- 111. Sycamore Ridge Park
met all of the conditions for electricity, cell service, and FCC approval, but the residents were opposed.
The Zone 6 water tank site does not have electricity or cell service. A property to the south was
suggested, but there is not any city- owned property and there would be the same concerns from the
residential area. Another site that was suggested and chosen is the proposed site which is 700 feet from
the nearest residence.          It is within the open space land and next to future residential     land on the north
that will run from 7800 South to the mountain and north toward West Valley City. This pole may be
the first development across the open space, but it will not be the only development. The submittal
meets all conditional use permit requirements, and it will be a beneficial use for many residents for
years to come. He clarified that the pole is 14 inches in diameter at the base getting smaller toward the
top, which is similar in size to a light pole. The antenna on top is only two inches in diameter.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for the West
Jordan Water Communications Tower— Sycamores,                       located at 7049 West 7800 South in a PC zone,
with the Conditions of Approval listed below.


1.       The communications             tower shall be consistent    with the submitted   application,   letter of intent
         and     site   plan.

2.       The communications tower shall be solely owned and operated by the West Jordan City.
         Telecommunication              antenna or equipment   collocations    that are not for the sole purposes    of

         West Jordan City shall not be permitted.
3.       The total height of the communications tower shall not exceed 125 feet.
4.       The communications tower shall comply with all Federal Communications Commission and
         Federal Aviation Administration requirements.
5.       A Building Permit for the tower construction shall be obtained, as required by the West Jordan
         Building & Safety Department.
6.       The Conditional Use Permit shall be valid for a period no longer than 12 months, unless a

         Building Permit is issued and construction is begun within that period and is thereafter
         diligently pursued to completion, unless a longer time is requested and granted by the Planning
         Commission.


Matt   Quinney felt that this would be a great service          to the city.
Planning&       Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 6, 2021
Page   7




Pamela Bloom drove to the area to understand        the concerns   and she appreciated   that it had been moved
700 feet and that it is a pole that won' t be intrusive and will not affect property values. This is a huge
benefit for those who will be able to use the services.


Kent Shelton had concerns for the future residents north of the pole with regards to safety if it could
fall due to an earthquake or some other natural disaster.


Greg Davenport said it would not be close enough that it would fall on a home. A buffer of
landscaping and 106 feet of right-of-way for 7800 South is provided.

Brian Clegg said geotechnical studies will be completed before installation and the pole and footings
are engineered to address those concerns.



Trish Hatch echoed the comments from Commissioner Bloom that it will be a benefit to the
community.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Christie Hardey, West Jordan resident, disagreed that this will not affect property values. There is also
a proposed hut that is in the natural trail corridor, the fencing will not be attractive, and it will take
away from her view. She was disappointed that the residents are not being heard. This is a luxury item
and not a necessity. The residents in the area are not happy about it at all.

Trish Hatch noted that emailed and phoned comments were received from Stacy Haight, Heidi Allred,
Michael Mildenhall, John Carruthers, Sarah Bagley, Mike Ulibarri, Jonathan Jex, and Heather Bowles
that will be added to the record.


Julie Hacking, West Jordan resident, had the same comments and concerns as Ms. Hardey, and she
added her concerns of the impact on wildlife in the area and with bird migration patterns.


Greg Davenport said the transmitters are similar to those used by police and fire scanners and they do
not emit harmful frequencies to either humans or animals. As far as nesting places, there are plenty of
other utility poles that are more advantageous than a narrow pole like this. He was not aware of any
danger to animals or to nesting birds. He said there will be a small utility shed at the base of the pole
that is similar to the other locations. They would accept any condition to make it attractive.

Brian Clegg said the shed is about 6 feet by 8 feet in size, but they could also put the equipment in a
strong box, or they could look at different options.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Greg Davenport showed a photo of the shed at the New Bingham site.

Larry Gardner asked if a box similar to what is found at the base of a cell tower could be used instead
of a shed.
Planning&         Zoning Commission   Meeting Minutes
April   6, 2021
Page 8



Greg Davenport said yes. Brian Clegg said that they will work with the vendor for an alternative to a
shed, which might also allow for more security. At this time the plan is to have vinyl- coated chain link
fencing around the tower, probably about 20' x 20' in size.

Corbin England said some of the comments had been that this is what the planning commissioners
want, but they are simply following state statutes and city codes. This is a conditional use permit on
city-owned property, and the planning commission does not have discretion. This will more than likely
be approved based on the application meeting the applicable codes and statutes. If it were something
that the commission was in favor of, but it did not meet the statutes, then they would decline it. The
decision is not based on their wants and wishes or personal feelings.


Trish Hatch read the statute that said they cannot prohibit a landowner from developing the land if it
meets the standards and conditions.



Duncan Murray said in most forums the public is used to hearings where there is discretion. But this is
more administrative         in nature. If the checklist of items is met, then it has to be approved. With a

conditional use permit, state law says if the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
conditional use permit cannot be substantially mitigated then, and only then, can it be denied. If the
conditions can reasonably mitigate the potential problems, then the planning commission can impose
those conditions and approve it. He said in the 30 years that he has been an attorney, he has never seen
a single instance where conditions could not be imposed. In this instance it does appear that the city in
its role as the applicant has voluntarily agreed to conditions above and beyond what the planning
commission would have imposed by moving the pole hundreds of feet, etc. If there was testimony
tonight that proved it was impossible to create conditions, then that evidence probably would have
come up. The comments are important and relevant to the residents in the area, but they are not
relevant to what the planning commission can consider. The planning commission is just applying the
rules, and the Public Works department agreed to the conditions that will reasonability mitigate any
concerns.




Trish Hatch recognized the sentiment that was in the email concerning land values, but the pole is two
football field lengths away from the neighborhood. She felt that as the area is developed and as more
homes are built then more poles like this or of some other nature are needed. We need to accept that it
is the future and this change is going to happen even as much as we may not like it.

Brian Clegg clarified that he originally thought that more tower would be needed, but the vendor and
site surveys indicate that only four towers total will be needed to cover the entire city for the meter
reading     system.


Ammon Allen recommended that the conditions of approval reflect that there will be a shed or box as
part of the site plan approval since one wasn' t indicated.

MOTION:               Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                      report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                      Conditional Use Permit for the West Jordan Water Communications Pole—
                      Sycamores, located at approximately 7049 West 7800 South, with the conditions of
                      approval   1 through 6 as listed in the staff report, adding:
Planning&   Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
April 6, 2021
Page 9



                 7.
                            The electrical components to be housed in the lower box- type facility
                             instead of a shed].

                 The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.




The next meeting will be in person and electronically.
MOTION:          Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned        at   7: 39 p. m.
                                                           4
                                                               ate
                                                   TRISH HATC
                                                   Chair


AE:.):                                                                                         c;
                                                                                                                    f e,„. '—,,
             x.„.(_,
          4...         7(
                  A__,,_    grA___,..._„_                                         e? „,..,/,




JULIE DAVIS
                                                                                 J .                                              Y
Executive Assistant

Community Development Department
                                                     Q
Approved this      a          dayof                                      2021                       1   , .,
                                                                                                               r.
Julie Davis


From:                     Mike    Ulibarri <   mulibarri@me.   com>

Sent:                     Tuesday, April 6, 2021 3: 48 PM
To:                       Julie   Davis

Subject:                  Sycamores       tower




Hi Julie,


I received your contact info from our neighborhood FB page.


I am a longtime resident of West Jordan and worked in the community and county as a
firefighter.
When deciding for a location to build our dream home the west end of the Sycamores stole
our hearts! Quiet area close to the mountains with a master plan of open space and nothing
to block our view or take away from the value and lifestyle of the neighborhood.

I understand the need to place the tower for the purpose of reading the meters what I don' t
understand is why this program was implemented without regard for the ability to use the
system without further expense of our tax dollars and the guarantee of property value loss?

If a program cannot be implemented without further cost and expense at the loss to
residence then why are we even considering moving forward with this tower?

I am open to any information and education on the project I could receive and always
open to a call from the planning commission or city council rep for insight.

Thank you,


Mike Ulibarri
801- 381- 6376


Sent from my iPhone




                                                         1
April   5, 2021




Comment via phone call from Heather Bowles resident at 7292 W New Sycamore                 Drive


She is opposed to the water communications tower. A lot of people use that open area as hiking trails.
This is a beautiful     area and the tower will ruin the view, disrupt the green area,   interfere   with wildlife,

look weird,   and     ruin   the residential   feel   of the   area.
Julie Davis


From:                                    Michael     Mildenhall <   mikemildenhall@gmail. com>

Sent:                                    Monday, April 5, 2021 10: 58 AM
To:                                      Julie Davis; Zach Jacob
Subject:
                                         Public comment regarding 100 foot water communication tower


West Jordan Planning Commissioners,


           My name is Michael Mildenhall        and I am a resident of West Jordan and I live in The Sycamores
neighborhood. Like other residents in the Sycamores Neighborhood, I received the public notice regarding the 100- ft
water communications tower which is being proposed in the area. While the new proposed location is better than the
initial proposed location ( the middle of a city park in the middle of our neighborhood),                     the new location is still non-
sensical—    it is too close to residential homes.



           I respectfully ask that this location not be approved for the following reasons:


               This 100 foot tower will be located on a hill across from a city park and in an open space area. It will be an
               eye sore and disrupt the view and open space area.



               Home owners will lose property value with a 100 foot tower in close proximity as demonstrated by research,
               which I understand has been given to Mayor Burton. I assume the City' s attorneys have researched whether
               the loss of home values     in a situation     like this   constitutes    a"   taking".   Perhaps diminution   of value alone is

               not enough to establish a taking in this situation. Nonetheless, even if it does not constitute a taking, its bad
               policy and government for the city to proceed when it knows diminution of value will occur. Put yourself in
               our shoes.




               This tower is not a necessity.        Mayor Burton         and representatives       from the water department     told residents

               at a previous neighborhood meeting these towers are not a necessity, but a luxury to add convenience for
               the water department.       Mere government convenience                  does not outweigh legitimate and important
               concerns of its citizens.



               There are other adequate locations. The Sycamores Neighborhood was established in 2004- 2005 and many
               citizens moved here, in part, due to the open space and the views. Installing a 100 foot tower after the fact
               is akin to " bringing a nuisance" to the neighborhood and is not fair to the residents who have been in the
               area for 15 plus years and rightfully anticipated the views and overall ambience would remain generally the
               same.   Again,   as residents,   we   did   not " come     to the nuisance"-- we were here before the tower.          If other

               adequate locations exist, why is the city not considering those locations?

               The city is asking residents of the Sycamores neighborhood to absorb a cost ( home values, losing open
               space, and having an eyesore) that they are not asking anyone else in the city to absorb. None of the other
               towers are on a hill or so close to a neighborhood. The city should be willing to absorb all of the cost in
               moving it to a further away location ( near the most west water tank) to make sure all of the residents in the
               city are happy.

           Please do not change the zoning and allow the tower to be located in the proposed location. Thank you for your
attention to this matter.




                                                                             1
Julie Davis


From:                                 Stacy Haight < stacyhaight@gmail. com>
Sent:                                 Monday, April 5, 2021 9: 50 AM
To:                                   Julie   Davis

Cc:                                   Robert    Haight;   Zach   Jacob

Subject:                              Public comment regarding 100 foot water communication        tower

Follow  Up Flag:                      Follow up
Flag Status:                          Flagged




West Jordan Planning Commissioners,


My name is Stacy Haight. I am a resident of West Jordan and I live in The Sycamores neighborhood.


I' m asking for the 100- ft tower to not be approved for this location.


When talking with Mayor Burton and the water department at a previous neighborhood meeting they told us that these
towers aren' t necessity. They don' t have to have these towers to read the meters. It is a luxury project the city decided
to do, to add convenience     for the water department       and residents.



We asked them at that neighborhood meeting, and I am asking again now, please do not put the tower right by our
residential   homes.   It will reside across from an park and in our open space park.



It would be up on a hill, and also 100 feet in the air, so it will break up the skyline view. It will be a terrible eye sore on
our beautiful views and open space.


A prominent    West Jordan realtor in our neighborhood           showed the mayor research that told him our homes would    lose

value with a 100 foot tower so close in proximity.

Our neighborhood offered other suggestions of where the tower could be located. They didn' t dismiss those locations,
they just didn' t like them because they would cost more money. They admitted they are looking for the easiest, cost
effective place and that we should be grateful it' s not in the actual park, which was the original location.



In putting the 100- ft tower so close to our homes they are asking us to absorb a cost ( home values, losing open space,
and having an eyesore) that they are not asking anyone else in the city to absorb. None of them other towers are on a
hill or so close to a neighborhood.



I suggest that if the city is willing to do a project that didn' t have to be done, they should be willing to absorb all of the
cost in moving it to a further away location ( near the most west water tank) to make sure all of the residents in the city
are happy.


The city council has repeatedly shown this neighborhood that they don' t really care about us. They took away part of our
open space a few years ago ( against the planning commissions recommendation) and now they are wanting to dump a
100 foot tower again in our open space. Every time I look out my window to the park I will see behind it that 100 foot
tower if it' s allowed to go there.



Please do not change the zoning and allow this tower to go here.

Thank you for your consideration.


                                                                         1
Julie Davis


From:                                Heidi   Allred <   h_ allred@yahoo. com>
Sent:
                                     Monday, April 5, 2021 10: 27 AM
To:                                  Julie   Davis

Subject:                             RE: 100 foot tower in West Jordan




Dear West Jordan City Planning Commissioners,
My name is Heidi Allred.  I live in West Jordan in the Sycamores neighborhood. We have been dealing with the issue of
this 100 foot water meter reading tower for a while now. First they wanted to put it in our actual park, now they keep
proposing to put it in the open space behind our park, and we don' t want it anywhere    near here.   There are other options
according to the mayor who came to our neighborhood meeting to discuss the issue. I' m sure you are looking for the
cheapest place to put it, but putting it so close to our neighborhood in the open space will significantly decrease our
property values and our beautiful views, which is a big reason why most of us live here in the Sycamores.
I am asking that you please move the proposed sight somewhere away from neighborhoods where we won' t have this 100
foot tall eyesore to look at every day. It also would be terrible to have you put it up here when you know it will decrease
our property values. If this were proposed for your back yard, or really close to your homes, would you be willing to allow
it?   This site needs to be taken off the possible list of places to put this tower. Find a new spot. There are other choices
and from what we' ve been told, it' s not totally necessary anyway.
Thanks     so much for your time.


Heidi Allred




                                                                   1
Comment received by phone call on 4- 5- 21



Jonathan    Jex



7456 W Tilbury Lane



He objects to the 100- foot communications   tower because it will be an eye sore and will devalue his
property.
Julie Davis


From:                                 Sarah Bagley < sarah2bagley@gmail. com>
Sent:                                  Monday, April 5, 2021 1: 21 PM
To:                                   Julie Davis
Subject:                              WJ Sycamores neighborhood          tower proposal




Julie Davis would you mind forwarding this email to the planning commissioners?



To whom it may concern ( or who ever will actually listen this time)

I can not attend the meeting and so am emailing my opinion.
I find myself AGAIN having to fight to keep a tower from being built in our neighborhood. To have already done so, only
to find it ignored, and have to repeat myself, makes my blood boil. As a mom, I feel very much like I' m STILL speaking to
a group of toddlers, having to repeat" No" over and over. Suggesting a " new spot" that is basically a hop skip and a jump
from the previously proposed area doesn' t change the effects, we as a neighborhood will have from this tower being
built in our area. Move   it or loose it      pretty please... thanks.


Yours,

Mrs. Bagley of the WJ Sycamores       neighborhood




                                                                  1
Julie Davis


From:                               J C < john. carruthers0@gmail. com>
Sent:                                Monday, April 5, 2021 11: 51 AM
To:                                 Julie Davis
Subject:                             Re: Question   for PLANNING            COMMISSION   MEETING                      on APRIL 6, 2021




Hi Julie,



It looks like my image didn' t attach to the previous email. I' m trying again:
                                                            a tilRcrtral Preaxc

                                                                                         Utah Oiyropic Ow i


                                                                                                    Ggmrrh     Fork
                                                               PlgNCt




                                                                                                              Cougar PaO




                    t(



                     4\




                                                                                                                       440



On Mon, Apr 5, 2021 at 11: 50 AM J C< iohn. carruthers0@gmail. com> wrote:
 Hi Julie,



 Can you please   ensure   that my question   regarding the West Jordan Water Communications                                 Tower— Sycamores   is

 forwarded for review during the April 6 planning commission meeting?

 My name is John Carruthers and I am a resident and home owner in the Sycamores neighborhood. My question is
 regarding alternative solutions prior to the purchase and installation of this new tower. Specifically, my limited research
 regarding the AMI water meter endpoints shows that these meters have approximately a 2- mile range. However, from
 the content of previous letters, I cannot find the exact make and models of the base station or endpoints so I cannot

 confirm this. However, if this is range is true. My question is if there has been considered to adding the base station to
 the existing tower located approximately 1. 2 km to the Northeast on the East side of Hwy- 111.
                                                                        1
I' ve provided a picture of the existing tower location' s 2- mile communication radius ( in red) against the proposed
location' s 2- mile communication radius ( in grey). In doing so, I' ve noticed the overlap is great and the additional area
gained by another antenna does not provide much more range.


As such, my concern is regarding a potential waste of resources, time, and funds with the close proximity of this tower
to an existing tower. As such, I ask for just a few answers:


1. What is the make and model of both the water meter endpoints        and the base station?
2. What is the maximum effective range of these units?
3. Has West Jordan installed similar units? If yes, have there been issues that have required the previous method of
reading? If yes, has a final cost- benefit analysis been performed to review the overall monetary savings of the tower
with the requirement of continuing the previous method of reading?
4. Has an evaluation been performed of adding to the existing tower referenced? If yes, what was the reason for not
using the existing tower?
5. Has the proposed tower been reviewed for future use cases such as monitoring other utilities? If yes, will this tower
be able to serve those other monitoring cases?

Thank you and I look forward to the answers,
John Carruthers




                                                               2
Lisa Elgin
West Jordan City

Questions for West Jordan Public Meeting on April 6, 2021 :

   1.
        Are they planning on putting up a wall around the property for privacy
        and noise control?

              How Tall?
              What Materials, brick?
                  i.   Currently they built up the property with so much dirt that
                       there is approximately 3 feet of privacy over the existing
                       fences.


   2.   Will they be blacktopping the entire lot, clear to the fences?

   3.   How tall will the building be?

   4. What will be the hours of operation?


   5.   What is the estimated amount of car or traffic activity?

   6.   How will the traffic flow through the property?

   7.   How will it affect the traffic flow and ability to enter 7800 South from
        Pando Way?

   8.   Will the property be locked to cars during the night hours?
              Will there be security/ cameras around the property?


Carol and Craig Peacock
2537 W Marion Drive
Directly behind the property in question
