MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION         HELD MAY 18, 2021 IN THE WEST JORDAN                            COUNCIL        CHAMBERS


PRESENT:         Trish Hatch, Jay Thomas, Corbin England, Matt Quinney, Ammon Allen, Pamela
                 Bloom ( remotely),       Kent Shelton( remotely).

STAFF:           Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Dirk Burton, Julie Davis, Brian
                 Berndt, Ray McCandless, Mark Forsythe

OTHERS:          Steven Losee, Ron McDougal, Randy McDougal, Jake Woodward. Those attending
                 remotely were Jeff Hammond, Susan Breinholt, Colonel, John Semnani, Ken Dodson,
                 Satar Tabriz,   Scott Howell




The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
information was provided.




The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 00 p. m.

1.     Consent Items
       Approve Minutes from May 4, 2021

MOTION:          Corbin England moved to approve the minutes from May 4, 2021 as listed in the
                 packet. The motion was seconded by Jay Thomas and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.     Banfield Pet Center; 7712 South 5600 West; Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional Use
       Permit for Veterinary Clinic;             SC- 2 Zone;    JW Properties, LLC/ Jacob             Woodward [# 23376,

       23745; parcel 20- 26- 477- 005]


Jeff Hammond, project architect, said that comments from the Design Review Committee meeting
regarding circulation and exterior materials had been addressed in the plans. He explained that this
facility is a neighborhood pet clinic for routine care. Critical care for long-term/ overnight stays will be
at an emergency pet facility. This is a similar program as the facility at 1600 West and 7000 South.

Ray McCandless gave an overview of the site plan. The building is approximately 4, 100 square feet in
size. Access is from the commercial road and 31 parking stalls have been provided. The Design
Review Committee recommended that brick be installed on the east elevation to break up the wall, and
that change is shown on the drawings. The landscaping plan is good, and pedestrian access connects to
5600 West.



Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional
Use Permit for Banfield Pet Hospital, located at 7712 South 5600 West in an SC- 2 zone, with the
Conditions    of Approval    listed below.


Preliminary    site plan
1.      The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
2.      All   changes   to the site   shall   be consistent   with   the   Site Plan   application.
Planning&  Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page 2



3.       An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
         approval.

4.       An approved final site plan shall remain valid for two years following the date of the approval.

Conditional Use Permit
1.       Planning Commission approvals do not include Public Safety, Fire, Building and Safety, or
         Engineering approval.
2.       Any appeals to the decision of the Planning Commission may be made to the Board of
         Adjustment within thirty (30) days pursuant to City Code, Section 15- 5- 3.
3.       The business activities shall be consistent with the submitted application, letter of intent, site
         plan and floor plan. Deviations from these documents shall be reviewed by all pertinent
         departments of the City of West Jordan.
4.       The business shall comply with all applicable noise ordinances of the Salt Lake County Health
         Department.

5.       Cremation     shall not occur on site.

6.       The proposed use shall meet all applicable County, State and Federal health regulations.
7.       No overnight boarding or kenneling shall occur on the site.
8.       Add faux windows or darker building material on the center architectural feature on the east
         side of the building.

Jake Woodward, applicant, was in attendance and participated in the discussion.

There was a discussion regarding the lack of a pet relief area. The applicant stated that there are pet
waste stations outside of the building that are monitored by staff. Pets are not taken outside of the
building once they are dropped off, for security reasons. That is also one of the reasons there is not a
separate door to the comfort room. That room is located near the front door and includes dimmable
lights, softer furniture, and a larger room. The front entrance has a vestibule for pet security as well.


Parking meets the code requirement. Appointments are fairly distributed throughout the day with about
20 pets on average and 7- 10 employees maximum. There have not been issues with morning and
 evening traffic at their other facilities. Most of the appointments are for checkups or shots with a focus
 on neighborhood pet care and not on surgeries that require long-term recovery.

 Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

 Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


 MOTION:         Ammon Allen moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                 report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
                 Preliminary Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit for the Banfield Pet Hospital,
                 located at 7712 South 5600 West in an SC- 2 zone, with the conditions of approval 1
                 through 8 as listed in the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney
                 and    passed   7- 0 in favor.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page 3



3.       McDougal Funeral Home; NE Corner 9000 South 3200 West; Future Lane Use Map
         Amendment for 4. 04 acres from Very Low Density Residential to Community
         Commercial       and Rezone from RR- 1D ( Rural Residential   1- acre lots) Zone to C- G
          General Commercial) Zone; McDougal West Jordan Holdings, LLC/ Randall McDougal
          applicant) [#   22586, 22587; parcel 27- 04- 152- 011]


Randy and Ron McDougal were in attendance. Randy McDougal explained that they have been
working with this property owner for a number of years for a project that is complementary with the
surrounding neighborhood. They and the neighboring church share common goals of wanting a nice
facility in the area. They hope to begin the project just as soon as they can get through the process.

Brian Berndt gave an overview of the request. The property was recently subdivided from the
Methodist church property and can now be developed separately. He reviewed and showed photos of
the surrounding properties and uses. Staff received two public comments by phone; one was concerned
with too much traffic on 9000 South and the other said that there was enough commercial in the area

already. Mr. Berndt said one of his concerns was what the property would be used for if the funeral
home is not built. Because UDOT has already decided that there is limited access from 9000 South, he
felt that any intensive retail use would be hindered by that limitation. Staff felt that a funeral
home/mortuary would be an ideal use for this property and recommended a positive recommendation.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Trish Hatch said the two public comments from Janet and Neil Hamilton and Glenda Peck were
entered into the minutes.


Susan Breinholt stated that they live northeast of the property and asked if this application would affect
their residential zoning.

Trish Hatch stated it would not be affected.


Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Kent Shelton asked the applicant to address the traffic impacts from this project.


Randall McDougal said they are very sensitive about traffic. They have been lifetime residents of West
Jordan. They like to keep the impact low in order to provide a calm atmosphere. Services are usually
during hours outside of peak traffic times and should not generate the amount that a retail development
would. Even though they are asking to rezone a larger tract of land, their idea is to keep a lot of it as
landscaped, open park area, especially east of the current access road. This area would have
contemplative walking trails for reflection. Placement of the funeral home would be toward the
intersection.



Brian Berndt clarified that access from 9000 South has not been verified with UDOT, but existing
accesses can typically remain. There may be restrictions for any additional access points, which would
be a curtailment   to other types   of commercial   uses.
Planning&     Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page 4



MOTION:             Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
                    report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
                    positive recommendation to the City Council for McDougal Funeral Home NE
                       Corner 9000 South 3200 West; McDougal West Jordan Holdings, LLC/ Randall

                    McDougal ( applicant) to Amend the Future Land Use Map Amendment for 4. 04
                       acres from Very Low Density Residential to Community Commercial and Rezone
                    from RR- 1D ( Rural Residential 1- acre lots) Zone to C- G ( General Commercial)
                    Zone. The motion was seconded by Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.



Trish Hatch read instruction to the viewing audience on how to watch the Committee of the Whole
Council work session.


4.        Semnani Development; 8482 South Redwood Road; Rezone 1. 34 acres from RR-. 5A

          Rural Residential half-acre lots minimum) Zone to R- 1- 8C ( Single- family residential
          8, 000 square foot minimum lots) Zone; JKBS Capital/ John B. Semnani ( applicant)
             23792; parcel 21- 34- 377- 049]


John Semnani, applicant, said the current zoning is for half-acre lots and they are requesting an R- 1- 8
zone. He said that developments        in the area are similar to the request.


Satar Tabriz, Ward Engineering, said this property is surrounded by R- 1- 8 zones. The property
currently has a home on the front portion of the lot and the back is unused. The city has outgrown the
rural lifestyle that used to be in the area. They propose that the back portion have the same single-
family homes that are in the area. The view from Redwood Road will not change, other than the
existing home will be remodeled and upgraded. He showed the concept plan, which includes a 30- foot-
wide private drive with a fire turnaround. They will meet architectural design standards for brick and
home size requirements. He explained the concept utility plan that will utilize available capacity. A
homeowners'         association will be established. He said this project is suitable for the area, will clean up
the property, and bring in more needed rooftops.

Mark Forsythe said the application tonight is strictly for a zone change. Any subdivision approvals
would be at a future time through the planning commission. The future land use map calls for medium
density residential, which includes the R- 1- 8 zone. This change is only for the subject 1. 34 acres and
would remove any existing animal rights. Other parcels in the neighborhood will not be affected. The
R- 1- 8 zone allows for lot widths that will accommodate the proposed layout, but the lots will probably
be larger than 9, 000 square feet. Although the property in the area is mostly RR-. 5A, there is a mix of
housing types: single- family, duplex, and an 8- unit apartment complex. Density fluctuates from 0. 4
dwelling units per acre to 14 du/ ac. A study shows the total base density is 2 du/ acre, but using the
average overall density it is 3. 27, which is closer to what the general plan calls for at 3- 5 units per acre.
With the approval of the request there would be a slight increase from 2 to 2. 1 du/ ac or overall from
3. 27 to 3. 28 du/ ac. The concept shows a private drive because there is not enough room for a 50- foot
right- of-way. By code, private drives cannot connect to a public road, so this road will not connect into
Shulsen     Lane.



Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council     for this    request.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page 5




Matt Quinney understood that the future land use map calls for medium density, but it seems they are
creating an island of R- 1- 8 in the middle of half-acre lots when there might be a possibility that the
entire area could one day possibly be rezoned. He wondered if they want to start this precedent. He
also asked for some background information on the Redwood Road Overlay zone.

Larry Gardner said that the future land use map is a planning document of how what City Council feels
is appropriate for the area. Often times development does not match up with the planning document,
but under the ordinance, if the zoning request matches the planning document, then it can be approved.
It might not be the best way to do it, but property assemblage without some kind of redevelopment
incentive can be difficult, especially if there are people who never want to sell. This type of
development is most likely what you will get with older, infill properties. The conceptual lot sizes are
good for this area.


Mark Forsythe explained that the Redwood Road Overlay was created as a way for existing residential
homes fronting Redwood Road to convert to a commercial/ office use by way of a conditional use
permit rather than by rezoning the property. In theory, the home fronting Redwood Road would be able
to convert to an office use after development of the subdivision, but there are a number of requirements
such as parking and site review.


Larry Gardner said it was popular in the 1990' s to use old houses for commercial/ office uses, but the
biggest issue with converting them is bringing them up to building code and ADA rules. It is a good
tool to have in place, but not every property is suited for it.

Trish Hatch asked if the property could ever tie into Shulsen Lane if property to the west were
developed.


Mark Forsythe said the code would currently not allow it because private roads cannot tie into a public
road. It could be possible it they were to acquire additional property to the south in order to meet the
minimum right- of-way width for a public road, but it seems unlikely.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ammon Allen was conflicted because he would hate to see all of the deep lots throughout the city
developed separately with four or five homes sharing a single driveway. He was not against the
rezoning, because it does match the future land use map, but he was concerned with the concept plat.
He would like to see something in code or policy that addresses how to handle deep lots by having a
master plan and minimum distances between access points.


Matt Quinney said the request meets the spirit and letter of the land use map, but he had always been
adamantly opposed to residential access onto major roads such as Redwood Road. He did not think
that the city wants to have an access on each one of these properties for a four- lot development. He did
not   support   the request.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page   6



Duncan Murray understood that they are asking for a text amendment to add policies or standards for
these types of developments along Redwood Road.

Matt Quinney, Ammon Allen, and Trish Hatch agreed that some kind of policy is needed so the area
can develop the way the city wants it without the traffic problems that private road after private road
would create. Other major roads should be considered, such as 1300 West.

Kent Shelton said that he was very conflicted. West Jordan needs more medium density housing, and
the request meets the future land use plan, but he agreed with the traffic concerns and cars pulling into
a little driveway. He would like to see a major plan for the entire area and not just one little piece, but
he did not know what kind of solution would work in this situation.

Pamela Bloom agreed with Commissioner Shelton' s comments.


MOTION:            Matt Quinney moved based upon the information and findings set forth in the staff
                   report and upon the evidence and explanations received today to forward a
                   negative recommendation to the City Council for Semnani Development; 8482
                   South Redwood Road; JKBS CapitaUJohn B. Semnani ( applicant) Rezoning 1. 34
                   acres from RR-.5A Zone to R- 1- 8C Zone citing that Criteria# 1 is not consistent
                   with the goals that the city has as this develops out. The motion was seconded by
                   Jay Thomas and passed 4- 3 in favor of a negative recommendation with
                   Commissioners Hatch, England, and Bloom casting the negative votes.


Matt Quinney said this is a recommendation from this body and it will go to the City Council for the
final vote on the rezone.




Trish Hatch read instruction to the viewing audience on how to watch the Committee of the Whole
Council    work session.



 5.        Text Amendment— Interchange          Overlay Zone ( IOZ); Amend the 2009 City Code Section
           13- 6K- 2; city- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 241111



 Larry Gardner said that the City Council Land Use Subcommittee reviewed the map associated with
 the Interchange Overlay Zone and recommended that certain areas be eliminated, which he explained.
 He suggested that the Planning Commission consider whether Area A on the proposed map should be
 reduced to exclude the developed industrial parcels.


 Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

 Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

 Matt Quinney agreed that the southern portion of parcel A should be eliminated since it is already
 developed with industrial uses. Corbin England agreed that parcel A should stop around the southern
 end   of the   apartments   on   5600 West.
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page   7



MOTION:
                  Corbin England moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
                  to Amend the 2009 City Code Section 13- 6K-2; Interchange Overlay Zone ( IOZ),
                  eliminating the far southern end of area A that is already developed. The motion
                  was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


6.         Text Amendment—
                            Commercial Zones; Amend the 2009 City Code Section 13-
           5E Commercial Zones, adding Recreation and Entertainment, Outdoor as a Conditional
           Use in the SC- 3 Zone; city- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) I# 241121

Larry Gardner said this amendment will add Recreation and Entertainment, Outdoor in the SC- 3 Zone.
There could be potential projects for outdoor recreation that would truly be regional in nature, so staff
felt that it was appropriate.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.


Ammon Allen asked if there is an area of SC- 3 property near enough to residential uses that would
cause problems with noise, etc.




Larry Gardner said the commercial areas in Jordan Landing are zoned SC- 3 and are adjacent to
residential uses. There is also an area of SC- 3 property that is west of residential zoning across 5600
West, which is close but not adjacent. The code amendment is to make the use conditional instead of
permitted, so the planning commission has the ability to establish conditions of approval to mitigate
any potential negative impacts.

Ammon Allen asked if staff knew what outdoor entertainment facilities in other jurisdictions have in
place for noise mitigation.


Larry Gardner said that he had no information.

Trish Hatch said that Top Golf in Midvale has a noise ordinance variance, so she can hear their music
if the wind is blowing. That is why she became involved with the Planning Commission.

MOTION:           Corbin England moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
                  to Amend the 2009 City Code Section 13- 5E; Commercial Zones, adding
                  Recreation    and Entertainment,   Outdoor   as a Conditional   Use in the SC- 3 Zone.
                  The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.


7.         Text Amendment— Accessory         Dwelling Units; Continued from 5- 4- 21; Amend the 2009
           City Code   adding Accessory Dwelling Units to R- 1 ( Single- family Residential),  RR( Rural
           Residential), RE ( Residential Estate), VLSFR ( Very Low Density Residential), LSFR
            Low Density Residential)    P- C ( Planned Community), and PRD ( Planned Residential
           Development)    Zones; city- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) [# 19432]
Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2021
Page 8




Larry Gardner said that this business item was continued from the last meeting so that he could add
definitions from state code into the ordinance. Comments at the last meeting included needed
regulations to limit each property to only one ADU either internal or external. That limitation will help
to maintain a semblance of single- family residential. Staff added some other regulations in order to be
consistent with the current accessory structure code dealing with structure size and lot coverage. Item
B6 came from the Planning Commission recommendation that the Design Review Committee review
EADUs for design and materials that need to be similar to and compatible with the primary dwelling.

There was a brief discussion regarding limiting the size of the EADU to a certain percentage. It was
agreed that between B4 and B7 that will sufficiently establish the maximum size allowed. IADU size is
not limited per state code other than to be subordinate to the primary unit. Also, the state legislature
will most likely be reviewing external units, which may establish limits. This would be a good
discussion point for the city council.

Regulation All will require a notice of condition that the property owner will sign and acknowledge
that the ADU will count as an internal unit for the purposes of state code even if it is an EADU. The

intent of the law is to allow one accessory dwelling somewhere on the property. The notice of
condition is essentially a contract and with the regulations in the ordinance there is more than ample
legal authority to prevent the City from having to approve an additional ADU. Staff will continue to
track any amendments that the state legislature might enact.

There was a discussion on which zonings EADUs should be allowed in and if they should be allowed
in any zone if they meet setback, size, and lot coverage regulations. The amendment was based on
information gathered from the poll taken at the work meeting, which was split. Staff will make a note
of the suggestion in the staff report so that it can be a topic of discussion at the city council meeting.

MOTION:               Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
                      Amend the 2009 City Code adding Accessory Dwelling Units to R- 1 ( Single- family
                      Residential),       RR( Rural Residential),          RE ( Residential    Estate),
                                                                                    VLSFR ( Very Low
                      Density Residential),              LSFR ( Low    Density Residential),
                                                                           P- C ( Planned Community),
                      and PRD ( Planned Residential Development) Zones. The motion was seconded by
                      Corbin England and passed 6- 1 in favor with Kent Shelton casting the negative
                      vote.




MOTION:               Corbin England moved to adjourn.


The meeting       adjourned       at   7: 27 p. m.
                                                               44          (
                                                                           IP                             0,"•


                                                               TRISH HAT        H
                                                                                                                       yy
                                                               Chair
         ST:
                                                                                                                 ezi
JUL      DAVIS
Executive Assistant
Community Development                   DepartmOF
Approved       this           L        day of        U                                    2021
Julie Davis

From:                       Julie   Davis

Sent:
                            Thursday, May 13, 2021 12: 10 PM
Cc:
                            Larry Gardner; Brian Berndt
Subject:                    Citizen Comment   on McDougal   application




Commissioners,

I received a phone call today from Janet and Neil Hamilton who live adjacent to 9000 South near the
subject  property on item # 3 of the May 18, 2021 meeting. She said that they are very opposed to the
request to rezone the property to commercial for a funeral home. They have more than their share of
commercial in the area with Granger Medical Center and signage in their back yard, the expansion
of Fairchild and Salt Lake Community College. It would be depressing to see a funeral home from her
window. This area is meant to be a residential community and she would like it to stay that way.

Julie Davis
Executive   Assistant


West Jordan Community Development
801. 569. 5066
Julie Davis

From:                           Julie Davis
Sent:
                                Tuesday, May 18, 2021 4: 18 PM
To:
                                Ammon Allen; Ammon Allen; Corbin England; Corbin England; Jay Thomas; Jay Thomas;
                                Kent Shelton; Kent Shelton; Matt Quinney; Matt Quinney; Pamela Bloom; Trish H; Trish
                                Hatch

Cc:
                                Larry Gardner; Duncan Murray; Brian Berndt
Subject:                        Comment on McDougal item



Commissioners,

I received a phone call today from Ms. Peck:

Glenda Peck, West Jordan resident in the subject area, said there is already too much traffic on 9000 South,
which makes it hard to get in and out of their street. Having traffic signals at only 2700 West and 3200 West
doesn' t allow for easy access onto and off of 9000 South.




Julie Davis
Executive Assistant


West Jordan Community Development
801. 569. 5066




                                                        1
