MINUTES OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
HELD JUNE 21, 2022, IN THE THOMAS M. REES JUSTICE CENTER COMMUNITY ROOM

PRESENT: Jay Thomas, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Ammon Allen, George Winn, and McKenna
Marchant. Kent Shelton was excused.

STAFF: Scott Langford, Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Mark Forsythe, Julie Davis

The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. The agenda was reviewed. Duncan Murray
presented training regarding conditional use permits.

CORPO OE ae Me SRC SSC eR CC Pa RL AT AC AR OP I CT A SO TT HO I PO

The meeting was called to order at 6:01 p.m.

1. Consent Calendar
Approve Minutes from June 7, 2022

MOTION: Ammon Allen moved to approve the Minutes from June 7, 2022. The motion was
seconded by George Winn and passed 6-0 in favor. Kent Shelton was absent.

RENE a MO ME et ETE SUC SE SO FO OS

Zi Friends 4 Life (F4L); 8846 South Redwood Road Ste N-101; Conditional Use Permit for
Adult Daycare, General; SC-2 (ZC) Zone; F4L, LLC/Jeffrey Moncur (applicant) [#27537;
parcel 27-03-178-090]

Jeffrey Moncur, applicant, said the business has been in operation for six years with nine residential
group homes and two day program locations. The request is to relocate one of their day programs from
Sandy to West Jordan. They work with the State of Utah to provide a range of services for individuals
with intellectual and developmental disabilities. They engage in activities for learning, social
interactions, and helping them to be out in the community. The proposed location would be primarily
used as a place to rest after activities, eat lunch, and participate in arts and crafts and learning activities.

Mark Forsythe gave an overview of the application, which is in the Redwood Medical Center, which is
appropriate for the proposed uses. Zoning Conditions attached to this property deal mostly with
buffering to the residential area, which were put in place when the property was developed. Parking
requirements for day care are one space per employee, so six spaces are required, which is less than the
18 that would have been required for a medical office. There are 480 spaces provided in the entire
complex. Clients are picked up and dropped off from their home. The lease space is 2700 square feet in
size, they will have 18 clients and six employees.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for Friends 4
Life, located at 8846 South Redwood Road, Unit N-10lin an SC-2(ZC) zone, with the Conditions and

Requirements of Approval listed below.

Conditions of Approval

Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2022
Page 2

1. The business activities shall comply with the submitted application, letter of intent and site
plan. Deviations from these documents shall be reviewed by all pertinent departments of the
City of West Jordan.

Requirements of Approval

1. All clients shall be 18 years of age or older.

Obtain and maintain a valid West Jordan Business License.

Obtain a Building Permit for any interior construction work, if required by the West Jordan

Building & Safety Department.

4. The Conditional Use Permit is subject to review and/or revocation, in accordance with §13-7E-
10 of the 2009 West Jordan City Code.

Le NO

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

It was pointed out that the applicant was given a copy of the staff report along with the conditions,
prior to the meeting.

MOTION: McKenna Marchant moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the
staff report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
Conditional Use Permit for Adult Daycare, General for Friends 4 Life, located at
8846 South Redwood Road, Unit N-101 in an SC-2(ZC) zone, with the Conditions
and Requirements of Approval listed in the staff report. The motion was seconded
by Trish Hatch and passed 6-0 in favor. Kent Shelton was absent.

Ye ate abe ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate abe ale ale ale ate abe abe ate ole he ote ote ate ate ate whe ale ale whe whe ale he a ot,

3. Highlands Landing Residential Rezone; 7662 South 5490 West; Rezone 7.26 acres from
R-3-20 (SHO) (Multi-family Residential 20 units per acre maximum density — Senior
Housing Overlay) Zone to R-3-20 (Multi-family Residential 20 units per acre maximum
density) Zone; Peterson Development/Barrett Peterson (applicant) [#27225; parcel 20-25-
351-014]

Jeff Seaman, Peterson Development, said the request is to remove the Senior Housing Overlay from
the property. A market study showed that the location of Villas at Stone Creek at 7800 South and 4800
West is a better fit for this type of product. The original proposal for this property was 145 senior
housing units in a three-story apartment complex. The proposal is for 45 single-family homes that will
serve as a transition from the larger lots to the east and the commercial property to the west and south.
An HOA will maintain the detention pond and some of the common areas.

Larry Gardner said the staff recommendation was originally negative due to lack of support from the
land use subcommittee. However, he received an email from the land use subcommittee after the staff
report was published that indicated support for removal of the Senior Housing Overlay if the applicant
worked on connectivity with the commercial area. If the proposal is approved, then that element will
be closely reviewed by the planning commission at the time of subdivision approval. Staff's
recommendation is now positive. He stated that the Planning Commission can make whichever
recommendation they feel is best. This property was originally rezoned from low density residential to
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2022
Page 3

multifamily (SHO) and commercial zones. The commercial portion of the development is very active
with retail and services uses. There is a vacant property where Intermountain Health Care is planning
to construct a facility in the future. The original application for Senior Housing Overlay was for a
senior apartment building. The R-3-20 zone will not change with the amendment, but the SHO will be
removed and that will also remove the possibility of multi-family according to the Balanced Housing
Ordinance. The only residential that will be allowed is single-family with a minimum of 4,000 square
foot lots. He showed the concept plan for 45 lots at a density of just more than six units per acre. Staff
recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council.

It was clarified by the applicant that Councilmember Green requested walkability, which could be in the
form of a walkway on the south side by the detention pond and maybe another walkway where the IHC
property is. The homes will be three levels and about 2,200 square feet in size. The garage will be the first
level.

Ammon Allen said that he would rather have an R-1-5 zone than a multi-family zone.

Larry Gardner explained that the use table for the R-3 zone allows for multi-family, but the Balanced
Housing Ordinance would not allow it except with the exceptions provided, such as the Senior Housing
Overlay, a Transit Station Overlay District, etc. So, in this case, if the SHO is removed then the only
residential use allowed would be single-family with a minimum lot size of 4,000 square feet. Some of the
lots would be larger than that with this layout. Years ago, the City Council decided not to use the R-1-5
zone any longer, and single-family is permitted in the R-3-20 zone. A concern with changing the property
an R-1 zone is the possibility of having an Accessory Dwelling Unit, which could possibly make the
density at 90 residential units. Accessory Dwelling Units are not allowed in a multi-family zoning district.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Councilmember Kayleen Whitelock said that she serves on the land use subcommittee and the letter
referenced by Mr. Gardner was sent only by Councilmember Green after having met with the Petersons.
She did not believe that the letter necessarily represents what was conveyed in the committee meeting.

Jordan Smith, West Jordan resident, said the property was originally zoned commercial and it was said that
commercial wouldn’t work, so it was changed to senior housing. Now they are saying that senior housing
won't work, and they want single-family, which is probably what they wanted from the beginning. He
didn’t think that this small community of homes fits in that location.

David Sund, West Jordan resident, asked if the homes will have garages and if they will be allowed to park
on the street behind the existing homes. He also wondered about access points. His concerns are increased
traffic that will disrupt the quiet neighborhood to the east, increase in the number of small homes in the
area, lack of privacy due to building height, decreased property values, and increased noise.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.
Jeff Seaman said access will be from 5490 West that has a pre-cast masonry wall, so the cars will never
access the cul-de-sac on the east. The closest any of these homes will be to an existing home is 130 feet, so

there is ample setback provided. The homes are three stories with the garage on the first level.

Scott Langford clarified that the maximum height is capped at 30 feet.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2022
Page 4

Ammon Allen said there is room for a development like this. He would like to see an agreement or
document in place describing how this will move forward prior to a zone change.

Trish Hatch asked Mr. Murray to explain for the public how recommendations for zoning come about and
that they are not financially or economically based as the resident implied.

Duncan Murray said the City Council’s decision is discretionary. However, the Planning Commission looks
at findings established in the code to determine if the proposal fits in the area. None of the criteria have
anything to do with financial issues. The Planning Commission does weigh and balance the land rights of
all property owners in the area. He said that zone changes can happen at any time on any property. A big
focus in zone changes are adequate public utilities if there will be a density increase. This zone change will
have less draw on public utilities. They will also take into consideration the height and walls, buffering, etc.
to try to mitigate impacts. Any decision of the Planning Commission should be based on the criteria.

Trish Hatch felt that the zone change is a better use of the land than a three-story, multi-family building.

Jay Thomas was considering the statement from Council Member Whitelock that the positive
recommendation wasn’t from the entire land use committee, and he would still vote for a negative
recommendation.

There was a discussion regarding the staff recommendation and if Council Member Whitelock’s statement
would change that. Mr. Gardner said that all three members of that committee were originally against the
proposal and Council Member Green is the chair. Council Member Green copied the email to Council
Members Whitelock and Worthen. He did not hear any other feedback from them contrary to the email
until this meeting, so he assumed that they agreed.

Matt Quinney said if this is approved, the Planning Commission will get to review the subdivision layout
for walkability.

George Winn felt that the proposal meets the criteria set before them.

McKenna Marchant said Mr. Gardner’s statement was that the initial non-support was due to wanting to be
consistent with the original approval. However, she felt that as a public body they can be flexible and to
shift as the market changes. There are other areas for the Senior Housing Overlay that the developer is
providing based on a market study and there is a housing crisis. She said that the location is a little odd, but
it serves as a buffer between the commercial uses and larger single-family homes. She was in support.

Ammon Allen said it isn’t necessarily a bad plan, but several of the criteria referred to the concept plan to
push it forward. It has been said that they are not approving the concept plan, so he would rather see the
proposal all at once with a development agreement showing how it will lay out.

McKenna Marchant said that is a fair point, but it takes a lot of money to provide those things without
assurances that zoning would be approved once it is brought forward. She felt that could be an unfair
requirement.

Duncan Murray said this comes back to the exaction discussion he spoke of earlier. The R-3 zone does not
require a master development agreement. He did not think that an MDA would be useful in this
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2022
Page 5

circumstance, because the City Code requires that these houses be single-family, and it is a permitted use
under the code. The subdivision process provides them with that security.

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff report
and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for Highlands Landing Residential Rezone
located at 7662 South 5490 West. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and
passed 6-0 in favor. Kent Shelton was absent.

Yo ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ale ale ate ale ae abe oh ote ote te ate ale te ale ale ate abe ate ale ale ale ale at

4. Text Amendment - Amendment to Part VIII-Landscape and Irrigation Policies and
Design Criteria April 2020” Amending “Parkstrip A Detail, 80/20 option”; city-wide
applicability; West Jordan Public Services Department; Isaac Astill (applicant)

Isaac Astill, West Jordan Public Services Director, presented a new standard that allows for no more
than 20% of their streetscapes to be in turf and there will be a new standard to be more waterwise. This
will allow them to provide more direction to the developers who are building in West Jordan.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to Amend Part VIII — Landscape and Irrigation Policies and Design Criteria April 2020.

Ammon Allen said regarding the overall design that it may require a higher level of care and
maintenance. He asked if the drip irrigation and sprinkler heads will be on different lines.

Isaac Astill said that they have been working on this for quite a while, and this amendment will get
them to what the City Council has envisioned and to be in line with Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District standards. Turf is the easiest to maintain and least expensive, so this will require commitment
from both the city and the developers when they set up HOA’s.

Dave Naylor, West Jordan Parks Manager, said the City Council approved a new water efficiency
standard in August. Some of their old designs did not comply with the updated Chapter 13. This will
help developers by providing them with a design that will be consistent instead of designing their own
plan to meet the code, which could result in a wide variety of looks. There is an entire section
dedicated to irrigation, which calls out the proper sprinkler head for each type of landscape element. It
is a high maintenance design, but it meets the adopted water efficiency standards. Plant coverage is
required to be 50% at maturity.

Ammon Allen asked if Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District looked at this plan.
Dave Naylor said they have not seen the actual plan, but it meets the requirements of what they put in
the code. Staff met with the Conservancy District many times as they were developing the water

efficiency standards, so the design reflects that input as well as City Council input.

Ammon Allen thought that it is good for the city to take part in waterwise measures that many of the
residents are following.

George Winn asked how much water this design will save.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 21, 2022
Page 6

Dave Naylor didn’t know the exact amount, but turf area is reduced by 50% with this design and all
turf has been removed in the parkstrip. He thought that water savings would probably be at least half.

Larry Gardner said one of the engineers at Jordan Valley Water said that if every parkstrip in West
Jordan was not watered turf it would save 12-acre feet.

There was a discussion regarding allowance for parkstrips wider than 9 feet to have turf, but West
Jordan is going above that requirement as an example by not including it. They also discussed the need
to beautify entryway medians on 7000 South. In the past there have been trees, but they do not survive.
The city is in a difficult position between keeping streetscapes green and being an example of water
conservation. Staff explained what they are dealing with for staffing issues versus the increase in open
space maintenance required. The proposed budget will increase staff to help manage that. Going
forward staff will use an algorithm to indicate the required number of staff needed to maintain city
properties.

Dave Naylor explained that streetscapes will fall under a maintenance contract, so it won’t require City
staffing but it will increase the cost of the contract.

McKenna Marchant said that she loved the design and by having the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District in the city we can be an example of what they are promoting. There may be a
little more cost for maintenance but there is less water use. She would love to take a field trip to the
conservation garden to learn more about what is being done for water conservation. She thanked staff
for their efforts.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed for this item at this time.

MOTION: George Winn moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
Amend Part VIII — Landscape and Irrigation Policies and Design Criteria April
2020” Amending “Parkstrip A Detail, 80/20 option”. The motion was seconded by

Ammon Allen and passed 6-0 in favor. Kent Shelton was absent.

MOTION: Ammon Allen moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 7:06 p.m. My Thowias

Jay Thomas (Jul 6, 2022 12:05 MDT)

JAY THOMAS
JUZIE DAVIS

Chair
Executive Assistant
Community Development Department

Approved this & day of July , 2022
