MINUTES OF THE WEST JORDAN PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
HELD JUNE 7, 2022, IN THE THOMAS M. REES JUSTICE CENTER COMMUNITY ROOM

PRESENT: Jay Thomas, Kent Shelton, Matt Quinney, Trish Hatch, Ammon Allen, George Winn,
and McKenna Marchant

STAFF: Larry Gardner, Duncan Murray, Ray McCandless, Mark Forsythe, Nathan Nelson
(remotely)

KRAEKKKER KKK KEK REI RR KR RK KK RRR KK RRR RRR RRR RR KR RR RRR KERR RRR RR RRR KR KARR RRR RER

The briefing meeting was called to order by Jay Thomas. Larry Gardner reviewed the strategies, goals,
and timelines of the moderate-income housing plan taken from the discussion at the last meeting.

Fe KKK IK RRR IKK RR RK RRR IRI RK RIK RRR KR KKK RRR KKK RR RRR RR KR KERR RK RK RK

The meeting was called to order at 6:00 p.m.
1. Oath of Office for New Commissioner

City Recorder Tangee Sloan administered the Oath of Office to new Commissioner McKenna
Marchant.

Kk KKK RR KK RRR IR KKK KR KKK KK RR KK KERR KKK KKK KEKE KKK KREKKKE KKK KKK

2. Approve Minutes from May 17, 2022

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved to approve the minutes from May 17, 2022. The motion was
seconded by Ammon Allen and passed 7-0 in favor.

KRHA K KKK RR KER IK RR RK KR RR KIRKE RRR RK RRR ERR ERR RRR ERK KK RK

3. Sienna Hills II; approx. 7515 S Copper Rim Drive; Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary
Subdivision Plat (78 townhomes and 47 single-family lots and 7 parcels on 13 acres); P-
C(IOZ) Zone; Lennar Homes Utah, LLC/Steven Jackson (applicant) [#26221, 25599;
parcel 20-26-326-050]

Steven Jackson, applicant with Lennar Homes, said this is the residential component of the
development within the IOZ zone. They have been working closely with staff regarding the site layout.
The townhomes are similar to those in the other phases of Copper Rim. The single-family homes are a
middle tier home with a 2-car garage. There are multiple open spaces and include tot lots and
pickleball courts. An access to the city’s water tower is provided. Staff felt that Parcel C should have a
fence that would allow for visibility from the rear yards into the park. The current proposal is for a
vinyl coated chain-link that is typically seen at park properties.

There was a brief discussion regarding fencing type. Some commissioners liked the idea of a vinyl
slatted fence that would allow for visibility but would have a little more privacy. The applicant was
willing to provide whatever type is preferred by the city and staff. The CC&Rs will require that any
fence that is replaced will comply with whatever opacity is required.

An overview of the commercial area was given. Landscaping was discussed and waterwise methods
were encouraged. The active open spaces will be sod due to the nature of the use. This project will
have a sub-HOA under the overall Copper Rim HOA.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 2

Ray McCandless said this property is within the Copper Rim town center. He pointed out the
commercial/office area south of this property. The final landscaping review is typically done by staff
during final approval, but the larger open spaces will have sod for active recreation. The opening into
Parcel C is 18 feet wide. Staff recommended that the fence around Parcel C be no higher than 4 feet for
visibility, no matter what type is chosen. Building examples were shown.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Subdivision and
Preliminary Site Plan for Sienna Hills II subdivision located at approximately 7515 South Copper Rim
Drive in the P-C(IOZ) Zone subject to the requirements of approval listed below.

Site Plan

1. An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
approval.

2. Approval of a final site plan shall become null and void if development does not commence
within two (2) years of the approval.

3. The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.

4. The development shall meet all requirements of the Engineering and Fire departments.

5. A 4 high black vinyl coated chain link fence or equivalent that does not obscure visibility into

Parcel C shall be installed along the rear and side yards of all lots that abut Parcel C and that
language be added to the CC&R’s prohibiting other types of fencing.

6. The site plan and subdivision must meet all requirements of the Master Development Plan and
Master Development Agreement.

Subdivision

1. All lots must comply with the applicable requirements of Title 13, Zoning Regulations and
Title 14, Subdivision Regulations including, but not limited to lot area, lot configuration, width
and frontage requirements.

2. All applicable city departmental requirements must be met prior to recordation of the final plat.

3. All structures constructed within the Subdivision shall comply with the requirements of the
zoning ordinance.

4. An approved preliminary subdivision plat shall remain valid for one (1) year. One 6-month

extension may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the
owner/developer, the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the
public health, safety, or welfare of the city.

5. An approved, unrecorded final subdivision plat shall remain valid for two (2) years. One 6-
month extension may be granted by the zoning administrator if, upon written request by the
owner/developer, the zoning administrator finds that the extension will not adversely affect the
public health, safety, or welfare of the city.

6. If another development within the Copper Rim commercial area is not already fulfilling the
improvements identified within the master development agreement, Sienna Hills IT will fulfill
these requirements as a condition of final approval.

McKenna Marchant asked staff if there was a need for additional parking near parcel C. She also
wondered if there was some discretion in requiring a variation in townhome colors or requirements that
would prohibit two of the same facades within a certain distance from the other.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 3

Ray McCandless said tot lots usually only have a few people at a time and the streets can
accommodate some on-street parking. Building colors are not regulated. The elevations and layouts
were reviewed and approved as part of the preliminary development plan at the beginning of the
approval process for Copper Rim, so it would be too late to ask for changes now.

Kent Shelton thought it might be nice to allow the residents who back up to Parcel C to have gates into
the open space.

Ray McCandless did not see that information in the proposal, but he didn’t see an issue with allowing
it.

Matt Quinney said the concern seems to be with Parcel C. He knows of a park in Colonial Estates with
the same design and situation and he had never heard of problems with it.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Alexander Hughes, West Jordan resident, said they are looking forward to new neighbors, but there are
some concerns. They currently have a great view, and they know that they can’t expect to always have
one, but the subject property is elevated and unless it is leveled down it will restrict the view and light
even more so. Also, there have been grading issues in that area. If the water from the property drains to
that same line, then it could exacerbate those problems. He hoped that review of the plans includes
building height and grading.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

Ammon Allen understood that each lot is required to retain its own runoff, and he wanted to be sure
that the grading will be done so that water will not be shedding onto the other properties.

Staff indicated that was correct.

MOTION: Ammon Allen moved to approve the Preliminary Subdivision and Preliminary Site
Plan for Sienna Hills II subdivision located at approximately 7515 South Copper
Rim Drive in the P-C(IOZ) Zone subject to the requirements of approval listed in
the staff report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7-0 in
favor.

KReKKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKEKEKKEKKEKKEKKKKKKKKRKKKKKKKEKKKKKKKKKKKEKREK

4. Grand-Dale Estates Ph. 2 and 3; 6681 South 3200 West; Preliminary Subdivision (6 lots
on 2.2 acres); R-1-10E Zone; Vetscorp/Kenneth Sanchez (applicant) [#26501; parcel 21-
21-302-009, 21-21-302-021]

Kenneth Sanchez, applicant, said they have been working with staff on a subdivision that will add five
lots and keep the existing house on another lot. The existing southern driveway will serve as a private
drive to the rear lots and the northern driveway access will be used for lot 201 from 3200 West. A
hammerhead feature will be used for emergency turnaround. Lot sizes are above average for the zone,
so impacts will be low. An HOA will enforce the ‘no parking’ regulations.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 4

Mark Forsythe said the project is an infill subdivision with similar minimum lots sizes throughout the
area. All proposed lots meet the code for size and widths. The subdivision ordinance requires lots to
front public streets, but an allowance is given for a private street in an infill situation where a public
road would be impractical, if approved by the planning commission. The four back lots will have
frontage on the central private road. Justification was explained as to why a public road would be
impractical, including removal of the existing home. The proposal would allow for a future connection
to the north. Setbacks on lots facing 3200 West are standard. Because the private road is part of the
four rear lots, setbacks are increased to create a more uniform look.

Based on the findings set forth in the staff report, staff recommended that the Planning Commission
approve the Preliminary Major Subdivision for the Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2 and 3, located at 6681
South 3200 West with the Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed below.

Conditions of Approval

1. Application for Final Subdivision review of Grand-Dale Estates Phase 3 shall occur no later
than one (1) year following the date of final staff approval for Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2.

2. Storm drain impact fees for both Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2 and Grand-Dale Estates Phase 3
shall be paid during the Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2 impact fee payment period.

3. All new electrical lines servicing the Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2 and Phase 3 subdivisions

shall tie into the existing power lines running along the southern boundary of the subdivision.
These new and existing lines shall be buried underground.

4. Diamondville Lot 4 Amended Subdivision must be concurrently approved with the Grand-Dale
Estates Phase 2 Subdivision.

Requirements of Approval

1. The subdivision development shall comply with all ordinances, provisions and standards of the
West Jordan City Code.

2. All applicable West Jordan City departmental requirements must be met prior to final
subdivision approval and recordation of the approved final subdivision plat.

3. The approved preliminary subdivision plat shall remain valid for 1 year following the date of

approval. A single 6-month extension may be granted by the Zoning Administrator if, upon
written request by the owner/developer, the Zoning Administrator finds that the extension will
not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare of the city.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve the
Preliminary Major Subdivision for Grand-Dale Estates Phase 2 and 3, located at
6681 South 3200 West with the Conditions and Requirements of Approval listed in
the staff report. The motion was seconded by George Winn and passed 7-0 in
favor.

Ne FTI RFE FE TE BFF I II TO TKK KKK KKK RK RRR AR ARK RK KR KKK
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 5

5. Text Amendment — Cemetery; Amend the 2009 West Jordan City Code Title 8, Chapter
14, Section 7 (Grave Decorations) and Section 8 (Markers and Monuments); City-wide
applicability; City of West Jordan (applicant)

Kelly Dolar, West Jordan Cemetery Sexton, explained that the adjustments to the cemetery ordinance
are due to the growing number of burials and to address safety concerns. The amendments will make
maintenance more efficient regarding placement of decorations on the monument, and it will establish
a uniform removal day that visitors can plan for. The amendment will also clarify monument size
limitations. Research had been conducted on some surrounding cemeteries, and these changes fall in
line with what is typical. Certain holiday periods will be given an extra week for decorations, and
signage will be updated with the amended policies.

Duncan Murray explained that Title 8 is adopted as a land use regulation, which is why the amendment
needs a recommendation from the Planning Commission.

Larry Gardner stated that the staff report would usually include a statement regarding the findings for
approving a text amendment as found in Section 13-7B. He has reviewed the proposed amendment and
found that it meets the findings of the ordinance.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: _ Trish Hatch moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the proposed amendment to the 2009 City Code Title 8, Chapter 14, Section 7
(Grave Decorations) and Section 8 (Markers and Monuments). The motion was
seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7-0 in favor.

HRA RRR RRR ERR RRR RRR RR RRR RR RRR RRR RRR RRR KR RRR RRR RRR RK RRR RRR RRR KEEK

6. Moderate Income Housing Strategies: amendment to the Moderate-Income Housing Plan
of the West Jordan General Plan adopting strategies to be compliant with State Law

Strategies recommended by the planning commission at the previous meeting were reviewed along
with goals and timelines.

1. Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate-income housing. Rezone
all qualifying properties to the Interchange Overlay Zone (IOZ) by December 31, 2025.

2. Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction
related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the construction or
rehabilitation of moderate-income housing. Adopt policy to waive fees and subsize moderate-
income housing by December 31, 2024.

3. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development to commercial
or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or
employment centers. Rezone all qualifying properties, approved by the city council, to the
Residential Overlay District (ROD) by December 31, 2025.
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 6

4. Amend land use regulations to allow for new moderate-income residential development in
mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors. Modify City Center (CC) land use
regulation by December 31, 2023

5. Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in new developments. Implement
Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD) by December 31, 2024.

6. Explore participation in a community land trust program for moderate income housing.
Determine feasibility by December 31, 2023.

7. Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (TRZ) pursuant to Title 63N Chapter 3, Part 6.
Determine feasibility of TRZ by December 31, 2025.

8. Develop a moderate-income housing (MIH 55+) project for residents who are disabled or 55
years old or older. Complete the project by December 31, 2028.

9. Develop and adopt station area plan(s) in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1. Adopt four
station area plans by December 31, 2025.

It was explained that by adopting these or other strategies, West Jordan can get on a list for priority
funding for transportation projects and other Federal funding that comes through the State of Utah. The
penalty for noncompliance could be that funding is withheld.

Jay Thomas asked what would happen if West Jordan were not able to fulfill the strategies due to
uncooperative parties or lack of funding sources.

Larry Gardner said initially we will determine feasibility and if other parties do not want to participate
or if it is determined to be infeasible, then the goals can be amended. The State is looking to see that

measures are being taken to meet the benchmarks, and if they cannot be met then they can be
reevaluated.

McKenna Marchant was in support of moving forward with the TRZ.
Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
amending the moderate-income housing strategies of the moderate-income housing
element of the General Plan as presented. The motion was seconded by McKenna
Marchant and passed 7-0 in favor.

te te tek ek kek oe kk ie tek oe kk ek tek ok tek dete dete dete eke tek ik ke ek ie oe kk kk kkk kkk kik kk kkk kiko k kkk kk kkk

7. Text Amendment — Integrated Housing Ordinance; Amend the 2009 West Jordan City
Code amending Chapter 5 of Title 13 Adopting Article M “Integrated Housing” and
amending Section 13-5-1 “Zoning Districts”; City-wide applicability; City of West Jordan
(applicant) [#27477]

Larry Gardner thanked Councilmember Green for his leadership on this ordinance. The intent of the
Integrated Housing (IH) ordinance is to allow for inclusionary development with varying home types
and lot sizes. Requirements for entitlement and need to be met before a master development agreement
or master development plan can be approved. The district will include a limited density zone meant for
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 7

infill projects up to 20 acres, and a development zone for projects with between 20 and 90 acres will
require a commercial component. He explained density buy-up provisions, home type ratios, and open
space. It is anticipated that this zoning district would be placed on undeveloped property.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.

Kelvin Green thanked Larry Gardner for his work on this ordinance. He said that the goal of this
zoning district is to eliminate the PRD zoning districts, which do not provide for a good balance.
Multi-family units in this district will be designed to look like a single home, which will integrate
housing types within one neighborhood. The ordinance also attempts to address the middle housing
issue by introducing the duplex, four-plex, and six-plex. Density buyup is allowed only by donating
lots to a community housing trust. The developer would still be able to build and make a profit from
the sale of the house, but not from the land. This ordinance will also waive the impact fees on donated
lots in order to help integrate moderate-income housing within neighborhoods.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: McKenna Marchant moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the
staff report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council amending the 2009 West Jordan City
Code Chapter 5 of Title 13 Adopting Article M “Integrated Housing” and Section
13-5-1 “Zoning Districts”. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed
7-0 in favor.

He ee KKK KEK KKK KKK RK EEK KK RR KK EKER EKKRKRKEKKEEKEKKKEKKKKKKE KKK

8. Text Amendment — Southwest Quadrant Mixed Use Ordinance; Amend the 2009 West
Jordan City Code amending Chapter 5 of Title 13 Adopting Article N “Southwest
Quadrant Mixed Use”; amending Section 13-5-1 “Zoning Districts”; and amending 13-7-
B “Site Plans”; City-wide applicability; City of West Jordan (applicant) [#27476]

Larry Gardner said staff has been working with the Gardner Company for more than a year to master
plan 1100 acres of the Jones family property. It has been the goal of West Jordan for the last few years
to create a job center in the southwest quadrant. Economic Development has been heavily involved
with development in this area. This new tool will help to create a purposefully planned development
area that promotes hi-tech manufacturing, employment centers, flexible commercial, office, and mixed
density residential uses in a master planned development. The goal is to have a predictable
development with relatable uses. Master development agreements and master development plans will
govern the development and cannot be approve until the required upfront work is completed, including
updates to city master plans in order to protect the city. This zoning district will be next to existing
single-family residential. The residential component will provide a buffer with different types of multi-
family product, which is generally the hierarchy housing type for buffering between commercial and
residential uses. The development will all be controlled by a master development agreement and
master development plan and will show the locations of all use types. The ordinance is geared toward
ultimate flexibility to develop the 1,000 acres in a master planned way. He reviewed the density types,
which will be approved by the City Council in an MDA. The entire development will have design
guidelines for a consistent theme. Building styles and types could be updated over time, but the goal is
Planning & Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
June 7, 2022
Page 8

to create a development that is attractive to major manufacturers who want to come to the area.
Manufacturing will be the predominant use in the zone in order to create a job center.

Matt Quinney asked why this ordinance is different from the one that was considered, but not
approved, a few years ago.

Larry Gardner said the West Foothills ordinance had a much higher density in only a large apartment-
style product that wasn’t used as a buffer. The council was also concerned that the developer wanted to
start with residential uses rather than manufacturing. The densities in this proposal are lower and we
already have applications for some industrial uses. The land use subcommittee liked how this provides
a buffer to the existing and anticipated future residential. This ordinance is more refined but gives the
same flexibility to the developer, who is seasoned in development of this type of product.

Jay Thomas opened the public hearing.
Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the staff
report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council Amending the 2009 West Jordan
City Code Chapter 5 of Title 13 Adopting Article N “Southwest Quadrant Mixed
Use”; Section 13-5-1 “Zoning Districts”; and 13-7-B “Site Plans”. The motion was
seconded by Kent Shelton and passed 7-0 in favor.

MOTION: Matt Quinney moved to adjourn.

on a——

JAY FHOMAS
Chair

The meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

ATIEST:

JU DAVIS
Executive Assistant
Community aaah Department

Approved this ia } a day of “Son cv , 2022

