MINUTES        OF THE REGULAR         MEETING ( ELECTRONIC)           OF THE WEST JORDAN
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION HELD REMOTELY ON MARCH 16, 2021


PRESENT:        Trish Hatch, Jay Thomas, Corbin England, Ammon Allen, Pamela Bloom, Kent
                  Shelton, Matt Quinney

STAFF:            Larry Gardner, Scott Langford, Lisa Elgin, Ray McCandless, Mark Forsythe, Julie
                  Davis, Duncan Murray, Nathan Nelson, Bill Baranowski, Paul Brockbank

OTHERS:           Mayor Burton, Brad Johnson, Fred Cox, Sargis Mnatsakanyan, Christie Hutchings,

                  Danielle Cota, Richard Azer, Johnny Anderson, John Fitzgerald


Trish Hatch read the statement regarding Utah Code 52- 4- 207( 4).

The briefing meeting was called to order by Trish Hatch. The agenda was reviewed and clarifying
questions were answered. Scott Langford provided some information regarding the change in
categorization for planning commission and board of adjustment members. The joint meeting with city
council will include discussions on ADU' s, revisions to the IOZ, and any codes suggested by the
commission that are challenging to work with. A brief discussion was held that concerned an email
sent to the commission by a resident of Sommerglen Heights and if a written response could be sent.
Larry Gardner said staff is trying to get the applicant of Park Valley Townhomes to work together with
the residents in the area for an amiable solution. Final grading hasn' t been determined for that site.


The regular meeting was called to order at 6: 02 p. m.

Trish Hatch read the statement regarding Utah Code 52- 4- 207( 4).

1.      Consent    Items

        Approve Minutes from March 2, 2021


MOTION:           Corbin England   moved to approve the Minutes from March 2, 2021 as contained
                  in the packet. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.


2.      Maverik; 3202 &    3258 West 7800 South; Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary
         Subdivision Plat; C- G Zone; Maverik, Inc./ Christie Hutchings ( applicant) I# 20647, 20649;
         parcels 21- 29- 479- 033, 034]


Christie Hutchings, applicant, said the site is rough graded in preparation for a 4, 425 square foot
Maverik store. The site has 37 parking stalls and seven fuel pumps. Improvements on 3200 West and
7800 South will help to square off the intersection. The eastern two- thirds of the western lot will be
developed as part of this project with the remainder one- third staying as surplus to either sell or for
expansion. A shared access easement will be included as part of the subdivision plat so that whatever is
developed in the future will have access.


Lisa Elgin added that the property is within the conical zone of the airport overlay, but there are no
restrictionsas far as this use is concerned. There is no fencing required and none is proposed.
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 March 16, 2021
 Page 2



 Architecturally, the building is typical of a Maverik store. The proposal meets all standards and
 ordinances of the city.


 Staff recommended thatlocated
minor     subdivision
                         the Planning
                         plat
                                      Commission approve the preliminary site plan and preliminary
                                 3202 &
                                      at
                                                  3258 West 7800 South with the conditions of approval listed
in the report.

 1.
          Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved by any
          administrative decision or action of city staff or the planning commission on matters
          pertaining to the interpretation and application of title 12, 13, 14, or 15 of this code. The
          appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days following the decision at issue. The person filing
          the appeal shall file written notice with the zoning administrator and with the board of
          adjustment specifying the reasons for the appeal. The city staff associated with the issues of
          the appeal shall, without delay, transmit to the board of adjustment all papers constituting the
          record upon which the action appealed from is taken.
2.
          Applicant must obtain UDOT approval within the UDOT right- of-way.
3.
          All staff comments shall be addressed by applicant to the satisfaction of staff before final
          approval.




Matt Quinney asked for more information as to the road improvements.

Larry Gardner said there have always been turn pocket issues on 7800 South and 3200 West, so that
will be widened to help improve traffic flow.

Bill Baranowski added that UDOT required the improvements on 7800 South and West Jordan
required the widening on 3200 West. This is one of the oldest intersections in West Jordan, so it is a
great opportunity to improve it.

Nathan Nelson said improvements to the handicap ramp will also be made.

Ammon Allen asked if the right turn lane east of this intersection will offer through traffic now that
there will be a third lane on the west side going into Maverik.

Bill Baranowski said it will remain a right turn only. The new right turn lane is to handle traffic for
Maverik.


Ammon Allen said access to the parcel is east of the existing traffic signal. He asked if there would be
any changes to the signal or traffic pattern once that parcel develops.


Bill Baranowski said there is a potential to have a full intersection at Old Bingham Highway that
would close that driveway and create one off of the new road going north into the vacant property and
possibly connecting to 3200 West. That was a possible configuration with this project, but the
applicant could not get enough property for the right- of-way since that owner is not ready to develop.
Trish Hatch    asked    if the remainder   property is large enough to be usable.
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 March 16, 2021
 Page 3




 Lisa Elgin said sites in this zoning district are only limited to setbacks and parking, so a small building
 could be built.


 Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

 Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
                   Jay Thomas moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan and Preliminary Minor
                   Subdivision Plat for Maverik located          3202 &
                                                            at
                                                                          3258 West 7800 South; Maverik,
                   Inc./Christie Hutchings ( applicant) subject to conditions 1 through 3 in the staff
                   report. The motion was seconded by Matt Quinney and passed 7- 0 in favor.

3.
          JLCC Office Building; 7178 S Center Park; Preliminary Site Plan; P- O Zone; Jordan
          Landing Child Care, LLC/ Johnny Anderson ( applicant) [# 23226; parcel 21- 29- 102- 005]

Fred Cox, architect for the applicant, said when Mr. Anderson' s childcare facility was built, an access
easement was created for the subject property since access would be hard to get on that corner. He
showed an updated site drawing that has an expanded three lane access onto Center Park Drive. The
design includes a fire truck turnaround. Total square footage is about 18, 400, which includes some
second story space. There are 46 parking spaces required and provided, and there are also some shared
parking spaces to the north. The landscape plan has planting by the street, parking is in the back, and
there is an existing detention pond. He showed the elevations that use colors to match ABC Great
Beginnings. The property is relatively flat, but he explained that to keep the parking behind the
building, it created a little bit of a hill. In addition to the sidewalk around the building, there is also a
sidewalk ramp from the street. The building is set up for either many tenants or just a few.

Johnny Anderson, applicant, said they plan to occupy most of the building as the corporate office for
ABC Great Beginnings, and some space would be available to lease out.


Kent Shelton asked for an explanation of access into the building.

Fred Cox said there are entry doors in front as well as in the back adjacent to parking. There is an
elevator inside the building for accessibility to the second floor. The ramp on the northeast portion of
the site is to access the building from the city sidewalk. He explained the drive access improvements
recommended by the traffic engineer. The childcare facility has an additional access drive to the north
and with the way children are checked in and out, traffic shouldn' t be a problem.


Johnny Anderson explained that pick- up times at the childcare center range between 2: 00 p.m. and
7: 00 p. m.

Ray McCandless said the layout and concerns of the Design Review Committee were covered in the
presentation and addressed with the widened driveway. This is a professional building within the
Professional Office zoning district. He stated that when the subdivision was originally created, this
piece remained a parcel instead of a lot. The subdivision plat has a requirement that at the time this
parcel develops it has to convert to a lot through a subdivision process, which is an administrative staff
review.
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 March 16, 2021
 Page 4




 Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Site Plan for the JLCC
 office building, located at 7178 S Center Park Drive in a P- O zone subject to the approval conditions
 listed below.


 1.
2.
          The proposed development shall meet all applicable 2009 City Code requirements.
          All changes to the site shall be consistent with the Site Plan application.
3.
          An approved preliminary site plan shall remain valid for one year following the date of the
          approval.

4.
          Approval from the Salt Lake City Department of Airports.
5.
          Approval of a minor subdivision prior to issuance of any building permit.
6.
          Emergency vehicle turn- around will need to be shown and approved by the Fire Department.
7.
          Preliminary site plan approval does not include approval by the City Engineering or Fire
          Departments.


Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:
                  Kent Shelton moved to approve the Preliminary Site Plan for the JLCC Office
                  Building, located at 7178 S Center Park Drive in a P- O zone subject to the
                  approval conditions 1 through 7 as listed in the staff report. The motion was
                  seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.


4.        Ground Mounted Antennas ( Flexential); 7202 South Campus View Drive; Conditional Use
          Permit; P- O Zone/ Airport Overlay District; Joe Guerriero, Danielle Cota/ Black& Veatch
          applicant) [# 23496;   parcel 21- 29- 102- 003]


Danielle Cota, applicant on behalf of Flexential Data Center, said the proposal is for the installation of
an unmanned satellite gateway system at an existing Flexential data center. The purpose is to provide
terrestrial internet to a satellite network. A total of nine Starlink Gateway antennas will be installed and
concealed in a 23 x 135- foot compound along with associated equipment. The antennas are seven feet
in diameter and nine feet tall. The antennas are sited on the property in a way that creates the least
amount of visual impact. The installation will provide highspeed internet to West Jordan and the
surrounding communities. Given the current situation with working and schooling from home there is
a definite need for reliable highspeed internet.


Mark Forsythe said the applicant has done a good job of managing the aesthetics within this
professional office zone. The property is also within the airport overlay zone, which requires a
conditional use permit for low power radio facilities. He reviewed the surrounding uses. The decibel
level is in the 50- 60 range, which is equivalent to a conversation between people in a restaurant or the
sound of an air conditioner at 100 feet away. Hampton Inn is approximately 280 feet away, so staff
does not anticipate impacts in terms of noise. The antennas operate similar to a cell tower by using
radio waves to communicate with satellites in orbit. They need to meet FAA and FCC regulations, and
the applicant is working with the FCC and with Salt Lake Department of Airports to obtain an
avigation easement.  The facility will occupy 15
                                                 parking stalls, leaving 41 spaces. The data center only
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 March 16, 2021
 Page 5



needs eight spaces. There are seven fulltime employees at the site. Normally, the associated ground
mounted equipment needs to be screened with a masonry wall, but the planning commission can
 approve alternate materials. The applicant would like to use a perforated metal panel wall, because a
 solid wall or screen interferes with the antenna function. The proposed wall allows signals to go
through and provides some screening to meet the intent of the ordinance. The proposed wall height is
eight feet and the antenna are nine feet high.

Staff recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use Permit for the
Ground    Mounted     Antennas ( Flexential),
                                                located at 7202 South Campus View Drive in a P- O Zone
and Airport Overlay District, with the conditions of approval listed below.
 1.
          The antenna array shall be substantially consistent with the submitted application, letter of
          intent and construction drawings.
 2.
          An Avigation Easement shall be obtained from the Salt Lake City Department of Airports
          and recorded at the Salt Lake County Recorder' s Office.
 3.
          The antenna array shall be fully surrounded by a perforated metal screen wall.
 4.
          Any new utility lines coming from other properties and/ or the street must be reviewed and
          inspected by the West Jordan Engineering Department.
 5.
          All new utility lines must be buried underground.
 6.
          The communications tower shall comply with all Federal Communications Commission
          and Federal Aviation Administration requirements.
 7.
          The antennas and all associated equipment shall be painted in a manner that does not
          reflect sunlight.

 8.
          The antennas and all associated equipment shall not generate any electrical interference that
          is detrimental to the operation of aircraft and/ or airport instrumentation.
 9.
          A Building Permit for the antennas shall be obtained, as required by the West Jordan
          Building&   Safety Department.
 10.      The Conditional Use Permit shall be valid for a period no longer than 12 months, unless a
          Building Permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period and is
          thereafter diligently pursued to completion, unless a longer time is requested and granted by
          the Planning Commission.

Kent Shelton asked how large of an area this facility will serve.

Danielle Cota said it serves about 500 km in any direction. She explained that if a user is on vacation
in Europe, they can still access the internet from their home internet service.

Trish Hatch opened the public hearing.

Further public comment was closed at this point for this item.

MOTION:           Corbin England moved, based on the information and findings set forth in the
                  staff report and upon the evidence and explanations received today, to approve
                  the Conditional Use Permit for the Flexential Ground Mounted Antennas,
                  located at 7202 South Campus View Drive in a P- O Zone and Airport Overlay
                  District, with the conditions of approval 1 through 10 as listed in the staff report.
                  The motion was seconded by Pamela Bloom and passed 7- 0 in favor.
 Planning& Zoning Commission Meeting Minutes
 March 16, 2021
 Page 6




 5.       Text Amendment—
                                  Landscaping; Continued from 3- 2- 21; Amend the 2009 City Code
          Chapter 13 Landscaping Requirements and Section 13-2-3 Definitions; City-wide
          applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant)


Larry Gardner said the planning commission discussed this item at the last meeting and held the public
hearing. The question ofharvesting rainwater was raised at that time. That topic is regulated by the
State of Utah, so it doesn' t need to be in this ordinance. Staff has been directed over the years that the
ordinance should include things that are mandatory and regulated and not just `encouraged'. The
general plan is more of an advisory document for things that can be reflected in the ordinance.

There was a brief discussion regarding 13- 13- 2 Waste of Water Prohibited, who determines the
definition, and how it is enforced. Staff will ask the city council if they want to make any changes to
that section. The possibility of establishing watering hours was also mentioned.
MOTION:
                    Matt Quinney moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
                    Amend the 2009 City Code Chapter 13 Landscaping Requirements and Section 13-
                    2- 3 Definitions; City- wide applicability; City of West Jordan ( applicant) with
                    consideration of the conversation held tonight. The motion was seconded by
                    Corbin England and passed 7- 0 in favor.

The commissioners were reminded of the workshop scheduled for March 31'.
MOTION:             Jay Thomas moved to adjourn.

The meeting adjourned at 6: 57 p. m.
                                                 Tifh h`a&k
                                                 Trish Hatch( Apr 7, 2021 10 33 MDT)


                                                 TRISH HATCH


      EST:                                       C
                                                                                                          Fyp
                                                                                                  t


                                                                                            r'



                    9
J if IE DAVIS
Executive Assistant                                                                                             174
                                                                                                                  u
Community Development Department

Approved     this      Ip    day of     djrpt.,                                        21   tlk   h   r
