MIDVALE CITY
HOUSING PLAN
2019
<LEFT BLANK>
                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

                            LETTER FROM THE MAYOR				              4

                            LETTER FROM THE RDA DIRECTOR			        5

                            EXECUTIVE SUMMARY					6

                            INTRODUCTION						11

                            DEMOGRAPHIC & HOUSING ANALYSIS		       15

                            PUBLIC OUTREACH RESULTS				19

                            HOUSING GOALS						23

                            ISSUES, STRATEGIES & RECOMMENDATIONS   24

                            PLAN IMPLEMENTATION				38

                            HOUSING SUPPLY DATA				39

                            GLOSSARY							43




Midvale City Housing Plan                                               1
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS



THE MIDVALE COMMUNITY
Special appreciation is given to all community members and service providers
who participated in stakeholder interviews, attended Housing Plan Open
House meetings and events, completed surveys and provided their thoughts
and comments throughout the process.


MAYOR ROBERT M. HALE                       COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC
                                           DEVELOPMENT
KANE LOADER, CITY MANAGER                  Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager,
                                           Community Development Director
CITY COUNCIL
                                           Lesley Burns, City Planner
Quinn Sperry, District 1
                                           Matt Hilderman, GIS Administrator
Paul Glover, District 2
                                           Alex Murphy, Associate Planner
Paul Hunt, District 3
                                           Jana Ward, Planner
Bryant Brown, District 4
Dustin Gettel, District 5                  IT DIVISION
                                           Matthew Pierce
PLANNING & ZONING
COMMISSION                                 Jake Shepherd
Richard Judkins, Commission Chair          Juan Rosario
Zachary Smallwood, Vice-Chair
                                           VODA STAFF
Colleen Costello
                                           Mark Morris
Kass Wallin
                                           Bryce Bushman
Candy Tippets
                                           Lauren Y. Leydsman
Tayler Jensen
Robyn Anderson

REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Patrick O’Brien, Redevelopment
Agency Housing Manager
Jessica Stephens, Redevelopment
Agency Project Manager



Adoption Date: 19 Nov 2019




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                       3
    LETTER FROM THE MAYOR


    To my Fellow Midvale Residents,
    Today, we are looking to the future with our new housing plan. This plan
    is laying the groundwork to build and preserve housing for our growing
    population, to support Midvale residents with a range of incomes, and in all
    types of housing. This is a plan to get ahead of the pressures we will face – to
    protect our neighborhoods, and to build and enhance our community for
    future generations.

    Today’s challenges are, in many ways, a result of our great success as a state.
    Utah is growing. We are a safe, welcoming, and dynamic place that has
    attracted many people seeking to live, study, work or start their businesses.
    Our growth from inward migration, coupled with the natural growth of our
    population is placing great stresses and demands on our housing market. This
    growth, combined with ever-rising economic inequality has created a difficult
    and painful reality, a growing number of Utahns and Midvale residents are
    spending more to cover their housing costs. Entire neighborhoods are losing
    their affordability, and with the changing dynamics of our neighborhoods, our
    great city is beginning to change.

    Midvale has always been the heart of the Salt Lake Valley. We truly are in the
    middle of everything, but we are losing our affordability – one of the reasons
    many people have historically made Midvale their home. Over the decades,
    Midvale’s great location and affordable housing stock has been an attractive
    lure for prospective residents and homeowners. The variations in levels of
    affordability of Midvale’s housing, coupled with our diverse range of housing
    types located throughout our city is what contributes to making Midvale a
    great place to live, and why many people choose to live here. Our cultural
    diversity, and broad range of housing types, allows Midvale to excel in all facets
    of city life. With the range of services and amenities that are available to us,
    and the strong sense of pride that each of us holds for our city, I truly believe
    that a concise and effective Housing Plan will only serve to strengthen our
    community and make Midvale a city where everyone is welcome and where
    anyone can live, regardless of their social or economic background.

    This is a 5-year housing plan that will begin to pave the way that Midvale
    needs to follow in order to support its current and future residents and all of
    the housing needs that we may face together as a community.


    Robert M. Hale, Mayor




4                                                          Midvale City Housing Plan
LETTER FROM THE ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER
& COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR


Members of our community are far too often faced with making difficult
decisions that place them in uncertain and compromising circumstances.
Nobody should have to choose between having enough food for themselves
and their family, and having a roof over their head at night. The reality is
that in our great City, some members of our community are faced with these
decisions – they must choose between food and rent. This challenge creates
an instability in our neighborhoods, and as such, impacts our wider city.

Through the preparation of the Housing Plan, City staff have identified many of
these challenges that affect our city and effect you, our residents. It is through
this identification of challenges and issues, that we as a City can eliminate the
housing instability in our neighborhoods, and start to bring stability to our
residents and the areas of Midvale in which they live. The Midvale City Housing
Plan is a response to the challenges that we face as a city, and as a State. The
Plan looks at ways of how we can take steps to enhance the lives of those
who live in our city through the provision of stable housing that is available to
people from all economic backgrounds.

Our Housing Plan focuses on the central issue of growth, and the challenges

that this poses to our city, now and in the future. By planning for future
growth, we ensure that our children and our grandchildren have a place to
call home, and that they are not faced with the housing challenges that we
face today. By planning for the growth of our city, we seize an opportunity to
respond to current challenges and failures that exist in our housing market,
and ensure that Midvale’s future is filled with a diverse range of housing types
in stable neighborhoods, that future generations can call home.


Matt Dahl, Assistant City Manager & Community Development Director




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                            5
                                          EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
                                          MIDVALE HOUSING MARKET

                                          Midvale is a city of 33,208 (2017) people, contributing 3% of the county’s
                                          population and 1% of the state’s population. Market demand regionally is
                                          very strong, with population growth driving new development. Midvale has
                                          benefited significantly from this growth, having the largest and most sustained
                                          period of residential construction in its history over the past eight years.
                                          Midvale’s rate of growth between 2010 and 2015, at 12%, outstripped the
                                          region. If this rate of growth continues, by 2040 it would be 52,000. While
                                          recent development has contributed to Midvale’s economy, historic market
                                          conditions persist and act as a drag limiting the benefits of this new growth.

                                          Fundamentally, Midvale’s housing market is driven by the short-term nature
                                          of its residents. Market data implies that there is a cycle of “Grow and Go”
                                          occurring, where people move to Midvale as young adults and leave the city
                                          when their economic status improves, or their family grows. Supporting this
                                          interpretation of the data is the fact that over half of Midvale households have
                                          lived in their current home for less than five years. Over time, this cycle has
                                          resulted in the disproportionate growth of specific groups within Midvale’s
                                          population that have not flourished in the post-great recession rally. These
                                          groups, including post-college millennials and impoverished, single-adult, and
                                          single-parent households, often are limited to the cheapest or most accessible
                                          housing available. Additionally, Midvale has a disproportionately low number
                                          of high-income households and married couples with children.

                                          The nature of Midvale’s housing stock is directly related to the short-term

                                          nature of the city’s residents. In Midvale, 58% of all housing units, including
Over half of Midvale homes are rental     multi-family and single-family, are rentals, which far exceeds the proportion
properties
                                          of rental units in the county (34%). Additionally, the median home value
                                          in Midvale, at $201,000, is significantly lower than the county. Households
                                          that wish to remain in Midvale as their financial situation improves, face
                                          limited options with a small number of high-opportunity neighborhoods
The source data being used is from the
                                          (neighborhoods with access to transit, quality educational institutions, an
American Community Survey, as this
is the data that the State requires the   abundance of jobs, fresh food, and open space) or large new homes being
City to use as a part of our reporting    available. This is highlighted by the low number of homes valued at $500,000
requirements for affordable housing       or above.
reporting.



6                                                                                                Midvale City Housing Plan
While the lack of high-end housing will need to be addressed to support a
more socioeconomically balanced city, this cannot over shadow the needs of
Midvale’s current low- and moderate-income residents. A significant number
of Midvale’s residents live in homes that are too small, in poor condition,
or have rental rates that leave tenants cost burdened. Forty-six percent of
all renter households are cost burdened, spending more than 30% of their
income on housing. These households are susceptible to changes in the
economy or personal emergencies, either of which could result in dire financial
consequences or even homelessness. In addition to the number of cost
burdened households, 5,100 people, representing 17% of residents in Midvale,
live below the federally established poverty level (e.g., an individual making
less than $11,700 or a three-person household earning less than $20,090).
This includes 1 in 3 children. Providing support for the cost burdened and
impoverished households in Midvale is needed to reduce the number of short-         Almost half of Midvale renters are
                                                                                    cost-burdened.
term residents and create more stable neighborhoods.


HOUSING PLAN

The Midvale City Housing Plan is intended to be a five-year plan that

identifies current and anticipated issues within Midvale’s housing market and
establishes the citywide policies that will address those issues. It will provide
a guide for building better neighborhoods, stabilizing existing neighborhoods,
and accommodating Midvale’s future growth. Through a process of public
engagement and market research six general issues were identified as
influencing housing trends in the city:

 • Population Growth
                                                                                    The median income of Midvale
 • Housing Stock Quality and Diversity                                              residents is lower than the County
                                                                                    median
 • Home Ownership
 • Neighborhood Stability
 • Education
 • Housing Affordability

The Midvale City Housing Plan provides an analysis of the current housing
market with policies recommended to address the issues, which are prevalent
in the market based on the demographic, social, economic, and housing
characteristics of Midvale, its residents and their particular needs.

The recommended policies established in this plan are identified under their
related issues:

POPULATION GROWTH
 • Reduce Lot Size Requirements in Residential Zones
 • Strategically Encourage Density in Neighborhoods of Opportunity
 • Modernize Parking Regulations to Support Residential Development

Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                7
                                        • Adopt By-Right Development in Strategic Locations (Especially around
                                          transit)
                                        • Modernize Setback and Open Space Requirements
                                        • Encourage the Development of Missing Middle Housing to Accommodate
                                          Housing Choice for People at All Stages of Life
                                        • Simplification of Subdivision Process

                                        HOUSING STOCK QUALITY AND DIVERSITY
                                        • Promote and Incentivize the Development of Accessory Dwelling Units
                                          (ADUs)
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
increases the affordable housing        • Acquire and Redevelop Blighted Residential Units in Single Family
supply, while financially benefitting     Neighborhoods
property owners.
                                        • Provide a Financial Incentive to Improve Homes
                                        • Business License Program for Landlords

                                        HOME OWNERSHIP
                                        • Down-Payment Assistance Program for New Home Owners

                                        NEIGHBORHOOD STABILITY
                                        • Support Code Enforcement Efforts
                                        • Support the Development of Walkable Neighborhoods Through Improved
                                          Connectivity, Development of Neighborhood Scaled Amenities, Good Urban
                                          Design
Encouraging mixed-income, multi-unit
developments increases density and
                                        EDUCATION
social mobility for moderate- to low-
income residents.                       • Maintain and Distribute Housing Data and Information
                                        • Provide Educational Opportunities For Renters and Landlords with Housing
                                          Industry Partners
                                        • Provide Homeownership Education with Housing Partners

                                        HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
                                        • Encourage Mixed-Income Multi-Unit Developments in Strategic Locations
                                        • Focus Programs on Households Making 80% AMI or Less
                                        • Include Density Bonuses for Affordable Housing Developments in Strategic
                                          Locations
                                        • Consider Use of Community Land Trust
                                        • Acquire and Redevelop Blighted Residential Units in Single Family
                                          Neighborhoods




8                                                                                           Midvale City Housing Plan
    WHAT IS A “COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLD”?
    A household spending 30 percent or more of its gross income on total housing expenses – rent/mortgage,
    basic utilities, and property taxes – is considered “cost burdened.” A household spending 50 percent or
    more of its gross income on housing is “severely cost burdened.”

    In Midvale:        46% of renters are cost burdened                             		
    		                22% of homeowners are cost burdened				
    		                8% of homeowners are severely cost burdened



                  EXTREMELY LOW-INCOME PEOPLE             AFFORDABLE RENT & UTILITIES: <$400/MO.
                     =<$16,000 per year, poverty level    People 65 years and older, People with disabilities,
                                                          People who live on a fixed income such as social

                      <30% AMI                            security




                             LOW-WAGE WORKERS             AFFORDABLE RENT: $420-$635/MO.
         $16,640 to $25,300 per year for an individual    AFFORDABLE HOME: <$175,000
                                                          Childcare Provider, Veterinary Assistant, Ski Patrol,

               30-50% AMI                                 Cashier, Visual/Performance Artist, Custodian, Fast
                                                          Food Cook, Hotel Clerk



                       LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS              AFFORDABLE RENT: $900-$1,445/MO.
       $36,100 to $57,750 per year for a family of four   AFFORDABLE HOME: $175,000-$200,000
                                                          Home Health Aide, Accounting Clerk, Legal

               50-80% AMI                                 Secretary, Physical Therapy Assistant, Truck
                                                          Drivers, Flight Attendant, Automotive Mechanic,
                                                          Kindergarten Teacher


                MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS                AFFORDABLE RENT: $1,445-$1,805/MO.
       $57,800 to $72,200 per year for a family of four   AFFORDABLE HOME: $200,000-$255,000
                                                          Special Education Teacher, Graphic Designer,

           80-100% AMI                                    Electrician, Sales Representative, Chef,
                                                          Chiropractor, Social Worker



                     HIGH-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS               AFFORDABLE RENT: $2,000-$2,700/MO.
     $86,600 to $108,000 per year for a family of four    AFFORDABLE HOME: $300,000-$400,000
                                                          Chemist, Electrical Engineer, Human Resources

        120-150% AMI                                      Manager, Nurse Practitioner, Attorney, Dentist, IT
                                                          Manager




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                         9
10   Midvale City Housing Plan
INTRODUCTION

Midvale is a city located in the center of the Salt Lake Valley with
an area of roughly six square miles. It is home to a population of
approximately 34,000 residents and numerous large employers,
including corporate headquarters for several national and
international businesses.
Midvale is located at the intersection of I-15 and I-215 and has three
TRAX stops with direct access to Salt Lake International Airport,
University of Utah and numerous employment centers. This central
location and ready access to all that the Salt Lake Valley has to offer
makes Midvale an appealing place to call home. Midvale has a rich
and diverse culture with many vibrant and distinct neighborhoods.
These neighborhoods are a dynamic mix of Midvale’s historic
communities and its newest developments binding the past and the
present. The west side of Midvale is experiencing significant on-going
                                                                                   Over 100 survey respondents stated public
development, within the Jordan Bluffs and Bingham Junction areas,                  amenities make a strong neighborhood.
both sites of Midvale’s industrial past.


WHAT IS A HOUSING PLAN?

A Housing Plan is a set of documents that address the housing goals for a city.
The document contains a set of detailed policies that are chosen to respond
to the specific housing needs of the city, for its current and future residents.
These needs are further assessed and prioritized to identify and develop
practical strategies that can be implemented to guide future decisions by City
staff and elected officials to meet and achieve specific goals.


HOUSING PLAN

The Midvale City Housing Plan establishes a vision for the future of Midvale’s
housing needs. The Housing Plan serves as a policy document for decision
making related to Midvale’s current and future housing needs over the next



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                      11
                                          five years. The Plan seeks to identify and address housing related issues that
                                          will impact the housing market in Midvale, in both the immediate and distant
                                          future.
                                          The Housing Plan is based on the current vision, values and data established
                                          through engagement with residents, service providers and other stakeholders,
                                          as well as through the utilization of the Housing Goals from the 2016 General
                                          Plan and current market research. Many of the issues presented in this plan
                                          have been identified through a robust public engagement program during
                                          the fall of 2018. These issues encompass all areas of housing and impact
                                          current and future residents of Midvale. Many of the issues such as growth,
                                          neighborhood stability, and housing affordability impact Citywide needs, whilst
                                          some issues such as quality of housing stock and homeownership impact
                                          specific neighborhoods.


                                          WHY DOES MIDVALE NEED A HOUSING PLAN?

                                          The City needs to update housing polices to meet the current and future
                                          housing needs of its residents. Midvale is expected to experience significant
                                          growth in the next 20 years, and the City must be able to provide for this
                                          future growth in a strategic and sustainable manner. The Kem C. Gardner Policy
                                          Institute at the University of Utah has prepared growth models that indicate
                                          Midvale will grow by an average of 730 new residents each year from now
                                          until 2040. By planning for growth, the City can make proactive and thoughtful
                                          policy decisions to ensure that Midvale maximizes the opportunities that
                                          growth provides, while mitigating its negative impacts.


                                          MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING STRATEGY
                                          REQUIREMENTS

                                          The State of Utah (State) has required that all cities include a five-year
                                          moderate-income housing strategy as part of their general plan. Municipal
                                          governments without this strategy are required to prepare one by December
                                          1, 2019.
                                          Updating or creating a new moderate-income housing strategy is a critical step
                                          for our community to prepare for the needs of current and future residents.
                                          A moderate-income housing strategy requires the gathering of demographic
                                          and housing market data and determining where current and future housing
The source data being used is from the
American Community Survey, as this        unit supply is insufficient to meet the demand for households making less than
is the data that the State requires the   80% of the area median income (AMI). State code requires that the moderate-
City to use as a part of our reporting    income housing strategy includes a minimum of three policies, from a list of
requirements for affordable housing
reporting.                                approximately two dozen options, that address the needs of moderate-income
                                          households. These requirements have been addressed in the Housing Plan.




12                                                                                              Midvale City Housing Plan
ANNUAL REVIEW REPORTS ON MODERATE-
INCOME HOUSING                                                                     WHAT IS “AFFORDABLE”
                                                                                   HOUSING IN MIDVALE?
As set forth in UCA 10-9A-408, each City shall conduct an annual review of the
moderate-income housing strategy and its implementation and report these           The typical monthly housing
findings to the Department of Workforce Services Housing and Community             expenses for both renters
Development Division.                                                              and owners should be less
                                                                                   than 30% of a household’s
On an annual basis from the date of the last update to the moderate-income
                                                                                   gross monthly income.
housing strategy, the City Council must:                                           General affordability for
                                                                                   a given area is based on
 • Conduct a thorough review of the municipality’s moderate-income housing
                                                                                   the AMI or Area Median
   element and its implementation, which must:
                                                                                   Income. Midvale uses Salt
        • Show efforts made to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate local regulatory     Lake County AMI values.
          burdens to moderate-income housing or to encourage preservation
                                                                                   The AMI for a household
          or development of moderate-income housing
                                                                                   of 4 is $73,800 and for a
        • Analyze and publish data about the number of housing units that          household of 1 the AMI is
          are at or below 80%, 50%, and 30% of adjusted median income and          $51,690.
          the number of housing units that are subsidized or deed-restricted
                                                                                   Affordable housing for
        • Include how a city is using the moderate-income housing set-aside,       a household of 4 that
          money the city expends to pay or waive construction-related fees,        earns 80% AMI ($59,050)
          and any city usage of Utah Housing Corporation programming               is a rental costing about
                                                                                   $1,476/month or an owner
 • Revise its five-year moderate-income housing needs estimates
                                                                                   occupied home priced
 • Report the findings of the annual review to the Housing and Community           around $265,000 (est.
   Development Division of the Utah Department of Workforce Services and           mortgage $1,193/month +
   the Association of Government to which the municipality belongs                 taxes and insurance).
 • Post the findings of the annual review on its website                           Affordable housing for
                                                                                   a household of 1 that
The reporting criteria which Midvale must comply with is set forth in UCA
                                                                                   earns 60% AMI ($41,350)
10-9a-103(b) and UCA 10-9a-408 of the Utah Code.                                   is a rental costing
                                                                                   approximately $1,034/
HOUSING PLAN IMPLEMENTATION RESOURCES                                              month, or an owner
                                                                                   occupied home priced
The policies and programs identified in the Housing Plan document will require     around $175,000 (est.
a significant financial investment to develop and implement certain proposals.     mortgage $824/mo + taxes
Midvale City does not have enough financial resources to fund these policies       and insurance).

and proposals on its own. The funding for the policies and programs set out
in the Housing Plan will come from other resources such as the Community         Source: Salt Lake County Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) operated by Salt Lake County, State funding       Resources and Development (2016
                                                                                 Area Median Income).
through the Department of Workforce Services, and through the Bingham
Junction and Jordan Bluffs Project Areas. The Midvale City Redevelopment
Agency will act as the primary funding resource through the finances that
it controls under the established housing set-asides from its Project Areas.
The City will work with housing partners who work in Midvale to partner on
additional funding opportunities.




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                         13
     MIDVALE
     A CITY IN TRANSITION
14                      Midvale City Housing Plan
DEMOGRAPHIC & HOUSING
ANALYSIS
Midvale is a small city of 34,000 residents, contributing 3% of the county’s
population and 1% of the State’s. However, Midvale has experienced
tremendous growth. Its rate of population growth between 2010 and 2015, at
12%, outstripped the region and most of the cities adjacent to Midvale. If this
rate of growth continues, by 2040 Midvale’s population will be over 52,000.
While future growth will have a significant impact on Midvale, understanding
the unique characteristics of the city’s current population is fundamental to
the development of policies and programs that will best serve the community.
One of the best methods for evaluating the magnitude of these characteristics
and their impacts is a market comparison with Salt Lake County and the cities
adjacent to Midvale. By using the aggregate data from the county and the
city specific data of adjacent cities, it becomes possible to make declarative
statements about Midvale’s housing market within the region.
                                                                                    The median home value is lower than
The city’s current demographic make-up, housing market, and land use                the county average.
patterns are the product of dramatic changes to its economy, transportation
system, and boundaries. These changes came from events such as the closure
of large industrial employment centers on the city’s westside, the construction
of I-15, and the annexation of land east of State Street. These changes have
resulted in Midvale developing unique characteristics in its housing market.
Midvale is a diverse community with a high number of low-income housing,
and a low number of high-income housing. The rental market comprises 58%
of the available housing units, highlighting the market demand.1 The median
home value in Midvale falls significantly below that of the rest of Salt Lake
County.2 Even with relatively affordable units, the residential housing stock
is insufficient to meet the demands of many residents, with people making
the choice to take on roommates or living in housing units that are poorly
maintained. These characteristics result in residents having a short tenure in
Midvale, often relocating to other communities when their economic status
improves.3 Through the public consultation process, the City learned that           Approximately 58% of all occupied
                                                                                    housing units being occupied in a
many people moved to Midvale due to its location, proximity to services and         rental capacity.
education centers, and due to its affordability. In contrast to this, many of the



1        U.S. CENSUS BUREAU, 2016
2        IBID
3        IBID



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                               15
                                        residents who provided this insight also provided an indication that they would
                                        leave Midvale if their financial circumstances were to improve over time.
                                        Facing issues of low-educational attainment, challenging household
                                        circumstances, and limited employment opportunities, a significant percentage
                                        of the population are either living in poverty or are one financial emergency
                                        away from becoming impoverished.4 Within this population children are
                                        particularly affected, resulting in 1 in 3 living in households with an annual
                                        income below the poverty level. These issues are particularly concentrated
                                        between 700 West and State Street.
                                        The rental market dominates in Midvale, with approximately 58% of all
                                        occupied housing units being occupied in a rental capacity.5 These rental units
The median household income is over     consist of not only multi-family units, but also a large proportion of Midvale’s
$10,000 less than the County average.   single-family homes. Single-family homes comprise 9.4% of Midvale’s rental
                                        market. The prevalence of rental units in the housing market is the result of
                                        numerous local and regional trends, though public input has indicated that
                                        many current residents chose to live in Midvale because it was affordable
                                        and offered easy access to other communities for shopping and employment.
                                        However, the current period of economic growth at the national and regional
                                        levels have started to impact these drivers of Midvale’s population growth.
                                        The changes in Midvale’s housing market are evident through the increase in
                                        the median home value in the City. From 2012-2016 the median home value
                                        increased by 24% for single-family homes. The increase in home values have
                                        resulted in the increase in households that are cost burdened. 46% of Midvale
There are 1,141 single-parent           renters are cost burdened, meaning that they spend more than 30% of their
households in Midvale.                  income on housing costs.

                                        MIDVALE HOUSING STATISTICS

                                        There are a number of trends associated with Midvale’s housing market
                                        that differ from adjacent cities. 48% of all of its households are occupied
                                        by a single-adult, a striking figure when compared to the 39% occupancy
                                        in Salt Lake County as a whole.6 Additionally there are 1,141 single-parent
                                        households in Midvale, representing approximately 10% of all of the City’s
                                        households.7
                                        Based on public input that was received throughout the public outreach
                                        portion of the plan process, there was a significant emphasis placed on the
                                        overall quality of homes in many of Midvale’s neighborhoods and throughout
                                        the city. This feedback specifically dealt with the low and often poor quality of
                                        some housing units that many residents have viewed as negatively impacting
                                        neighborhood stability and perception. Naturally occurring affordable housing
                                        (NOAH) is housing that is available to households making 80% or less of AMI,


                                        4        U.S. Census Bureau
                                        5        IBID
                                        6        IBID
                                        7        IBID



16                                                                                             Midvale City Housing Plan
but that has not been subsidized. It is often the poor-quality housing stock
that falls into the category of “naturally affordable”. In contrast, the subsidized
affordable housing in Midvale is housing that receives funding through
different programs, such as the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program,
that provides development incentives for housing units at different levels of
AMI and is often times of excellent quality and relatively new. Midvale has a
relatively large volume of both forms of affordable housing. To a large extent,
the location of the subsidized affordable housing is dispersed throughout the
city and is also mixed in with market rate homes. In contrast, a significant          Union Plaza, located in Midvale,
proportion of the naturally occurring affordable housing is concentrated in           is a subsidized multi-family
specific neighborhoods. The negative impressions of the affordable housing            housing development. (Image:
stock in Midvale are centered on areas with naturally occurring affordable            HousingConnect.org)
housing.




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                17
18   Midvale City Housing Plan
PUBLIC OUTREACH RESULTS

As a part of the Plan preparation process, the RDA conducted a robust public
outreach program. This process was initiated in February 2018 and includes
City Council meetings and presentations, open house events, a four week long
citywide housing survey and interviews with stakeholders and community
groups such as homeowners associations (HOA), and Midvale Community
Council. The first public Open House was held on June 6th, 2018. Throughout
the public outreach component of the Plan preparation process, the City
engaged with over 400 members of the public through Open House events,
surveys, and community meetings, with the majority of engagement occurring
through survey participation. Staff also engaged with a number of service      The main reason survey respondents
providers as a part of the stakeholder engagement, including Utah Community    live in Midvale: the location.
Action, United Way 2-1-1 and The Road Home.


OPEN HOUSE

Midvale City conducted two separate open house events to provide
information on the Plan process as well as to provide an opportunity for the
public to offer input on the information presented at each Open House. Over
50 members of the public, as well as several service providers attended the
Open House events. In collaboration with the Midvale City Communications
Specialist, the following methods of communication were engaged to inform
the public of the Open House event:                                            Majority of the survey respondents
                                                                               chose to live in Midvale due to the
 • Social media (Facebook and Twitter)                                         location.
 • Midvale City Journal
 • “Peach Jar” Canyons School District newsletter website
 • Press release to local newspapers
 • Flyers distributed to all Midvale residential properties
 • Post cards
 • City website
 • E-notifications
 • Email distribution
 • Midvale Community Council



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                            19
                                                 The Open House provided an opportunity to display a number
                                                 of presentation boards with educational information, as well as
                                                 engagement opportunities for attendees to offer opinions and other
                                                 valuable input. Each attendee was offered an answer sheet, that
                                                 allowed for answers and comments to be recorded based on the
                                                 information and questions presented. Each presentation station
                                                 offered different information points related to housing in Midvale
                                                 and the purpose of the plan. The stations covered the following
                                                 information:
                                                  • What is a Housing Plan?
                                                  • Midvale Housing Statistics
                                                  • Neighborhoods of Opportunity
                                                  • Life Cycle Housing
                                                  • Midvale Mapped
                                                  • General Plan Housing Goals and related questions

                                                 City staff were available throughout the event to provide answers and
                                                 assistance to attendees. Staff also made note of public comments
                                                 made during their discussions with members of the community in
                                                 attendance and collected answer sheets at the end of the night. There
                                                 was also a station that allowed those in attendance to participate in
                                                 the Housing Plan Survey using City provided iPads. This function was
 Reasons why residents expect to stay or leave   facilitated by the IT Department of Midvale City.
 Midvale in the next five years.
                                                 All of the information gathered from the Open House attendees was
                                                 compiled along with emailed comments from individuals who were
                                                 not able to attend the Open Houses.



                                                 CITYWIDE SURVEY

                                                 An integral component of Midvale’s community outreach program
                                                 consisted of gathering valuable public opinion on housing issues
                                                 experienced by Midvale citizens. The survey was open to all Midvale
                                                 residents and was available to be taken online for the period of one
                                                 month, to allow the best chance for wide ranging participation and
                                                 engagement. The survey was available in both English and Spanish.
                                                 Those who engaged with the survey provided information that
                                                 highlighted a strong citywide representation. There were respondents
                                                 from each neighborhood in Midvale, as well as respondents across
                                                 all age ranges. This diversity of respondents provided the City with
                                                 a variety of views and opinions on many housing related issues as
                                                 discussed in the survey. Overall, there were 336 survey respondents.




20                                                                                           Midvale City Housing Plan
A sample of the results are highlighted throughout the document.


IDENTIFIED ISSUES

The Open House events and survey brought to the attention of the City a
number of housing related issues. These issues have resulted in policies and
programs included in the Housing Plan.

Some of the identified issues provided through public input are as follows:

 • More access to recreation, affordable housing and better employment
   opportunities is needed
 • Many neighborhoods have poor quality housing stock in need of upgrading.
   The average rating of the overall quality of housing stock in Midvale was 6
   out of 10 based on input at the first Open House event
 • More planned green space would help enhance the quality of life in
   Midvale
 • More transit opportunities are needed throughout the city, including
   improved bus routes
 • Home ownership needs to be encouraged
 • Encourage more college graduates to live in Midvale




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                        21
22   Midvale City Housing Plan
    HOUSING GOALS

The 2016 Midvale City General Plan establishes a vision for the future
of Midvale and serves as a policy document for decision-making for the
development of the city for the next 8-10 years. The housing goals of the 2016
General Plan have been identified as the guiding principles, or foundation,
upon which the Housing Plan is to be built.
The 2016 Midvale General Plan’s housing vision is for Midvale to provide a
diverse, high quality housing stock that incorporates a range of housing forms
and densities that appeal to new and existing residents at different income
levels and life stages while retaining the character and form of established
neighborhoods. The ability for Midvale to maintain a diversified housing stock
is integral to its sustainability, and to its success as the epicenter of life in the
Salt Lake Valley.




  1      Maintain and strengthen stable neighborhoods. This goal includes
         preserving the quality and character of existing neighborhoods;
         providing neighborhoods with better connectivity and access
         to recreational amenities; and ensuring that infill and adjacent
         development is compatible with the existing neighborhood.


  2      Maintain and improve the quality of existing housing stock in Midvale
         and revitalize the physical and social fabric of neighborhoods that are
         in decline.


  3      Expand the variety of housing opportunities to allow for more choices
         in types and locations of residences. This includes providing for a
         mixture of housing sizes, densities, types and affordability in each
         area of the City.


  4      Support the development of more affordable housing in appropriate
         locations, i.e. near transit, retail, commercial, schools and recreational
         amenities.


  5      Encourage higher density residential in appropriate locations in
         opportunity areas to create the market needed for viable commercial
         development.


  6      Continue to encourage a variety of housing types, sizes, and pricing
         with new developments.


Midvale City Housing Plan                                                               23
     ISSUES, STRATEGIES &
     RECOMMENDATIONS
     Through the housing plan development process, six housing and neighborhood
     related issues impacting current and future Midvale residents were identified
     through a combination of public input, market analysis, and leading data in the
     field of housing and planning.1 The issues are as follows:

                        • Growth
                        • Housing Affordability
                        • Housing Stock
                        • Home Ownership
                        • Neighborhood Stability
                        • Education

     These issues will not be solved in five-years, but the intent of this plan is to
     make meaningful progress in addressing them through the implementation of
     targeted policies and programs.


     POPULATION GROWTH

     Population projections for the State of Utah, which are prepared by the Kem
     C. Gardner Policy Institute at the University of Utah, indicate that the state will
     grow by 1.3% annually through 2065, adding 2.8 million new residents. Salt
     Lake County is anticipated to take on approximately 21% of this growth (Kem C.
     Gardner Institute, Utah’s Long-Term Demographic and Economic Projections,
     July 2017). Two-thirds of these residents come directly from Utah families,
     rather than migration. Utah has the largest household size in the nation,
     averaging 3.19 people. As a result of this unique demographic characteristic,
     when we discuss housing policies related to growth, we are addressing the
     question, “where will our children live?”
     Midvale is anticipated to experience an average annual growth of
     approximately 730 people between 2019 and 2040. Midvale’s projected
     increase in population will result in approximately 15,330 new residents
     by 2040, which in turn, would require approximately 5,334 additional new
     housing units of all types to support this growth. Given that the city has limited
     land that is undeveloped, the ability for the City to meet the needs of future


     1        Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City



24                                                           Midvale City Housing Plan
                                                                                                    16,000 Additional Residents
                                                                                                         Proposed by 2040

                                                                                                     3 Individuals / Household

                                                                                                  5,334 Additional Household Units

                                                                                                   Amount of Acreage Needed to
                                                                                                  Accomodate Additional Residents

                                                                                                    Midvale City includes 5.603
                                                                                                    square miles or 3,586 acres


                                                                 889 ACRES
                                                                                                             6 Units / Acre
                                                        356 ACRES                                   889 Acres Required

                                                179 ACRES
                                                                                                             15 Units / Acre

                                                                                                    356 Acres Required

                                                                                                             30 Units / Acre

                                                                                                    179 Acres Required

                                                                                                             City Limits




                                                                                                           4
Figure 3. Required acreage for future growth by density level.

residents will require changes to the City’s current land use policies, as well as
a diversity of housing options to meet the needs of all future residents.

RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOALS
Continue to encourage a variety of housing types, sizes, and pricing with new
developments.
Expand the variety of housing opportunities to allow for more choices in types
and locations of residences. This includes providing for a mixture of housing
sizes, densities, types and affordability in each area of the City.
Encourage higher density residential in appropriate locations in opportunity
areas to create the market needed for viable commercial development.                 Encouraging a variety of housing
                                                                                     types, like this eight-plex, allows more
POLICIES                                                                             choices for the residents of Midvale.

G01       Reduce Lot Size Requirements in Residential Zones
The City shall reduce the minimum lot size requirements in residential zones.
Strategic changes to the minimum lots sizes in the City will result in the
development of new units throughout the city. If done strategically, these
changes could support future growth without negatively impacting traditional
neighborhood characteristics. For example, the Single-Family Residential Zone
(SF-1) is the largest land-use zone in Midvale. In the SF-1 zone, the minimum



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                            25
                                          lot size is 7,000 sq. ft. This level of density allows 5 units per acre. The
                                          minimum requirement will be reduced to 5,000 sq. ft. This change would allow
                                          for 8 units per acre. This change will provide an opportunity for the growth of
                                          single-family homes in Midvale, as well as provide additional housing options
                                          to address Midvale’s projected growth. Similar modest changes in density will
                                          over time allow for the development of new units throughout the city without
                                          introducing significant change in the city’s established neighborhoods.

                                          G02      Strategically Encourage Density in Neighborhoods of Opportunity
                                          The City shall allow moderate-to high-density development in neighborhoods
An example of a cottage cluster. A        that have access to jobs, open space, fresh food, public transportation,
cottage cluster includes smaller homes    quality education, and neighborhood services. By increasing density in these
with a shared open space. Cottage         neighborhoods of opportunity, the City will increase the overall number of
clusters offer reduced landscape
maintenance responsibility and
                                          households that would benefit from living in stable and desirable areas of
efficient parking designs. Cottage        the city, as well as mitigate some of the challenges that are associated with
clusters provide an opportunity for       increased density when it is forced into areas without infrastructure and
growth of single-family homes in          services to allow fewer vehicle trips. By allowing for greater density, the City
Midvale.
                                          is not requiring any specific housing type, rather the policy would support a
                                          greater choice in the housing that can be built.

                                          G03      Modernize Parking Regulations to Support Residential Development
                                          Midvale’s goal in determining new parking requirements should be to minimize
                                          the amount of unused or excess parking included in each development. Excess
                                          parking creates significant burdens within the community. First, excess parking


Excessive parking adds significant cost   Living Space vs. Parking Space
to the development of new housing
units. The cost of building a new stall
can range from $5,000 for surface
parking to $50,000 for underground
structured parking. These costs are
passed on to the homeowner or renter,
adding to the affordability issues
experienced in Midvale.




                                          Minimum parking requirements focus more funding and resources towards
                                          storing cars than to housing. (Image source: Sightline Institute).




26                                                                                               Midvale City Housing Plan
reduces the developable land in the city, thereby limiting the number of
housing units that can be built. Second, excessive parking adds significant cost
to the development of new housing units. The cost of building a new stall can
range from $5,000 for surface parking to $50,000 for underground structured
parking. These costs are passed on to the homeowner or renter, adding to the
affordability issues experienced in Midvale. Third, excess parking contributes
to neighborhoods that feel like they are built for cars rather than people. This
can reduce the desirability of a neighborhood for both current and prospective
property owners.
In addition to addressing the amount of parking required for new residential
developments, the City will consider innovative shared parking policies, by
taking advantage of parking that is available at different times of the day.
This may include shared parking between residential and commercial uses
and increasing the ability to count on-street parking as a method of meeting
parking needs. This will ensure that parking lots and public parking are being
efficiently used throughout the day.

G04      Adopt By-Right Development in Strategic Locations (Especially near
         transit)
The City shall allow by-right development in strategic locations throughout the
city. By right development refers to projects that are permitted under current
zoning and do not require any legislative action by the City Council or Planning
Commission. Projects are approved administratively by staff and do not require
public hearings. By adopting by-right development in strategic locations,
the City promotes development under adopted zoning laws, and increases
the efficiency of the development process through a faster administrative           Transit-oriented development reduces
                                                                                    the need for parking lot, which
review process. By-right development encourages new development because
                                                                                    increases the affordability of housing
it creates certainty in the process thereby reducing risk for developers.           units. (Image: Jeremiah Cox)
Additionally, a more efficient process will reduce holding costs, which would
otherwise be passed on to the homebuyer or renter, contributing to more
affordable housing.

G05     Revise Setback and Open Space Requirements
The City will revise its setback and open space requirements with the goal
of creating greater efficiencies in land use and the physical integration of
new development within the community. Excessive setback and open space
requirements, especially associated with multi-family developments, create
opportunity costs for the city in the form of lost residential units and property
tax. To eliminate inefficiencies and wasted resources, all open space over
a minimum threshold should be required to be programmed for specific
uses to ensure that the space is not wasted or used for unwanted activities.
Additionally, setback and open space requirements should be used to
                                                                                    Providing developers who build
integrate residential developments within the community rather than creating
                                                                                    affordable units a fast-tracked
separation. Exceptions for substantial changes in density between adjacent          permitting process will decrease the
properties should be given special consideration in the modifications of the        cost of those projects, increasing the
setback requirements. Through these efforts, the City would encourage the           likelihood that such projects make it to
                                                                                    the market. (Image: VODA)


Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                27
                                                                         development of new residential units and stabilize
                                                                         residential neighborhoods.

                                                                         G06      Encourage the Development of Missing
                                                                                  Middle Housing to Accommodate Housing
                                                                                  Choice for People at All Stages of Life
                                                                              Missing middle housing is a range of multi-unit or
                                                                              clustered housing types compatible in scale with
                                                                              single-family homes that help meet the growing
                                                                              demand for walkable urban living. These housing
                                                                              types provide diverse options along a spectrum
                                                                              of affordability, include duplexes, fourplexes, and
                                                                              bungalow courts, and support walkable communities,
                                                                              locally-serving retail, and public transportation.
                                                                              The City will encourage this type of development in
                                                                              residential neighborhoods in Midvale to meet the
                                                                              current and future needs of Midvale’s residents and
Life cycle housing seeks to provide housing choice for all residents, for all to reflect the ever-changing demographics of the city.
phases of their lives, within each neighborhood.                              Missing Middle Housing provides a solution to the
                                                                              mismatch between the available U.S. housing stock
                                                  and shifting demographics combined with the growing demand for housing in
                                                  walkable urban places.

                                               G07       Simplification of Subdivision Process
                                               The City shall overhaul the subdivision approval process through the approval
                                               of minor subdivision (i.e. for 3 or less lots) applications by administrative
                                               action, general subdivision applications of 4-9 lots through Planning
                                               Commission action following the guidelines outlined in 16.04.050 of the
                                               City’s Code. In the case of subdivisions of 10 or more lots, the process should
                                               follow that outlined in 16.04.040 of the City’s Code. This will provide a more
Duplexes add density, while                    streamlined approach to minor and general subdivisions, but still allow for
maintaining the look of a single-family
                                               Planning Commission and City Council approval for those instances where a
home in a neighborhood.
                                               proposed subdivision may have a significant impact on a neighborhood.

                                               5 YEAR OBJECTIVES
                                                • 1,500 new residential units (single-family, townhouses, duplex, stacked flat
                                                  condominium, and multi-family)




28                                                                                                        Midvale City Housing Plan
                                                                                                    Single Family Zones
                                                                                                    1790.37 acres (50%)
                                                                                                    Multi Family Zones
                                                                                                    1034.72 acres (29%)
                                                                                                    Non Residential Zones
                                                                                                    761.01 acres (21%)
                                                                                                    City Limits




                                                                                                       4
Figure 4. Midvale Residential Zones



HOUSING AFFORDABILITY

INFORMATION ON HOUSING AFFORDABILITY
Midvale has a significant need for affordable housing. 2,800 households in the
city are housing cost burdened, meaning they spend more than 30% of their
monthly income on housing costs. Additionally, 15% of families live below the
poverty line, which results in 1 in 3 children living in poverty. More residents
need affordable housing each year as housing prices outstrip wage growth.
In Midvale, housing prices increased by 24% between 2012 and 2018, while
statewide wages grew between 2% and 3% annually over the same period.
This trend results in more homes becoming unaffordable for current residents,      15 percent of Midvale's households live
as well as Midvale’s next generation. To address the growing affordability         below the poverty line.
gap, the City needs to focus on expanding Midvale’s housing stock, reducing
barriers to development, and supporting efforts to provide housing subsidies
for moderate- to low-income households.

RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOALS
Support the development of more affordable housing in appropriate locations,
i.e. near transit, retail, commercial, schools and recreational amenities.



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                   29
                                         Encourage higher-density residential in opportunity areas to create the market
                                         needed for viable commercial development.

                                         POLICIES					

                                         HA01     Encourage Mixed-Income Multi-Unit Developments in Strategic
                                                  Locations
                                         The City shall encourage and incentivize mixed-income development in
                                         strategic locations with public transportation options, open space, and
                                         neighborhood services. Mixed-income development promotes upward social
                                         mobility for moderate- and low-income households and prevents issues that
By increasing density of mixed-income
developments in strategic areas,         arise from concentrated poverty. The City shall encourage mixed-income
social mobility will be promoted         projects by providing density bonuses or financial incentives, as well as
for moderate- and low-income             removing roadblocks to development and inefficient land use requirements by
households.
                                         providing more administrative decision-making powers to staff.

                                         HA02     Focus Programs on Households Making 80% Ami or Less
                                         The City shall focus incentive programs on households making 80% or less
                                         of AMI ($64,000 for a family of 4). The Median Household Annual Income
                                         in Midvale is $54,400 (2017), meaning that a significant portion of the city’s
                                         households would qualify for income targeted programs. These households are
                                         the most likely to be housing cost burdened, and often lack the ability to find
                                         the housing that meets their needs. Supporting household stability through
                                         affordability can contribute to greater social mobility and improved quality of
                                         life for the affected residents, as well as making them more financially resilient
                                         when faced with short-term financial issues, such as the loss of a job.

                                         HA03     Include Density Bonuses for Affordable Housing Developments in
                                                  Strategic Locations
46 percent of Midvale's households are
cost-burdened.                           The City will promote the development of affordable housing through the
                                         implementation of density bonuses or incentive zoning for developments
                                         located in the identified opportunity areas of the 2016 General Plan.
                                         Incentive zoning or density bonuses offer rights to a developer in exchange
                                         for public benefits to the community. For example, the maximum height for a
                                         development may be increased if 20% of the developments housing units are
                                         income restricted. This would support mixed-income development, reduce the
                                         concentration of low-income housing, and ensure that the greatest density is
                                         in neighborhoods with the services to support the population.

                                         HA04     Establish Framework for a Community Land Trust
                                         The City shall seek to increase the number of affordable single-family homes
                                         in Midvale through the utilization of a Community Land Trust (CLT), or a similar
                                         model. A CLT is used to acquire and develop land for affordable housing.
                                         Through a CLT, the City retains ownership of the land that is acquired for
                                         affordable housing development and sells the home that is built to income-




30                                                                                              Midvale City Housing Plan
qualified buyers. As terms of the sale, the CLT agrees to lease the land to
the home buyer for a nominal amount and restricts the future price of the
home when the owner seeks to sell it. This structure allows the home buyer
to receive equity in the home, but also keep the price low over the long-term
through the ongoing ownership of the land by the City. By removing the value
of the land from the purchase price of the home, it becomes affordable to
moderate- and low-income households. This model has been used throughout
the state and nation and would need to be modified to work with the
resources available to the City and the needs of the Midvale’s residents.

5 YEAR OBJECTIVES
 • 500 new or preserved units for households making 80% or less of the area
   median income.


HOUSING STOCK QUALITY AND DIVERSITY

The typical size, age, quality, condition, and type of housing in Midvale varies

significantly based on where the homes are located and the era in which they
were built. Overall, single-family homes represent 47% of the housing stock,
the median home price is $201,000, 80% of the units have three bedrooms or
less, and the average unit age is 35 years. Given the age of the housing stock
and several factors impacting the ability of property owners to invest in their
housing units, a significant portion of Midvale’s housing is viewed as needing
upgrades to their landscaping, facades, structures, and systems. Survey results
indicate that residents rated the quality and condition of Midvale’s homes
as 6 out of 10. The perception, and reality, of the housing stock’s condition
has significant impacts on its residential neighborhoods. By encouraging or
incentivizing the rehabilitation of existing units and the building of new units
Midvale can make a significant impact in the lives of the city’s residents,
including the retention of residents that may move to other communities
when their family or economic status change.

RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOALS
Maintain and strengthen stable neighborhoods. This goal includes preserving
the quality and character of existing neighborhoods; providing neighborhoods
with better connectivity and access to recreational amenities; and ensuring
that infill and adjacent development is compatible with the existing
neighborhood.
Maintain and improve the quality of existing housing stock in Midvale and
revitalize the physical and social fabric of neighborhoods that are in decline.




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                          31
                                                                                                        2017 Land Info Record Parcels
                                                                                                        Total Market Value
                                                                                                             $0.00 - $100,000.00
                                                                                                             $100,100.00 - $200,000.00
                                                                                                             $200,100.00 - $300,000.00
                                                                                                             $300,100.00 - $400,000.00
                                                                                                             $400,100.00 - $500,000.00
                                                                                                             $500,100.00 - $600,000.00
                                                                                                             $600,100.00 - $700,000.00
                                                                                                             $700,100.00 - $800,000.00
                                                                                                             $800,100.00 - $900,000.00
                                                                                                             $900,100.00 - $1,000,000.00
                                                                                                             $1,000,100.00 - $63,879,200.00
                                                                                                             City Limits




                                                                                                                 4

Figure 5. 2017 Land Information Record Parcels. Total Market Value.



                                                POLICIES

                                                HS01     Incentivize the Development of Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
                                                In supporting affordable housing and increasing available and varied housing
                                                stock for the rental market, Midvale City shall encourage and incentivize the
                                                development of Accessory Dwelling Units. These units, typically 500-600
                                                square feet in size, fit on existing properties, usually behind single-family
                                                homes, or within already established homes as a self-contained unit within
                                                the primary residence. The production cost on these units is reduced because
                                                the price of the land is removed from the construction cost. The model
                                                allows for households to accommodate their changing family needs, perhaps
                                                housing a student or aging parent. In order to encourage the use of ADUs
                                                the City should remove regulatory roadblocks, establish design standards,
                                                and consider providing financial incentives for a pilot development program.
                                                ADUs can increase available housing stock and provide additional useable
Because the land is already owned,
                                                residential units throughout Midvale without changing the character of the
the production cost on these small,
inexpensive units is reduced even               neighborhood.
further, making ADUs the most cost-
effective method of new construction
for small housing units.




32                                                                                                   Midvale City Housing Plan
HS02    Provide a Financial Incentive to Improve Homes
                                                                                  Before
The City shall establish a program to provide a financial incentive to improve
the facades, structures, and systems of single-family homes throughout
Midvale. A home repair incentive program could provide either a tax
reimbursement through an annual program allocation or a low-interest
loan to encourage homeowners and landlords to invest in their properties.
Through this program, Midvale would address issues of housing quality and
neighborhood blight.

HS03    Business License Program Modifications                                    After
The City shall modify the licensing program for businesses and landlords
that operate residential rental units within Midvale. First, for purposes of
maintaining proper records, each business shall identify in their business
license application or renewal the address of each rental property and the
number of units located at each location. Second, the City shall modify its fee
structure so that it is tied to the number of rental units operated within the
City, with a higher fee for businesses that operate more rental units. Third, a
meaningful fine should be created and enforced for individuals and businesses
that fail to obtain a license or disclose the rental units that they own.         HOME REPAIR
                                                                                  PROGRAM
Revenue generated from the new fee structure and fines would go towards
the implementation of the business license program and the establishment          A Home Repair Program
of a rental unit renovation program that would be accessible to licensed          offers home repair loans
businesses.                                                                       and technical assistance to
                                                                                  homeowners and investors
HS04    Acquire and Redevelop Blighted Residential Units in Single Family         within the city. The images
        Neighborhoods                                                             above illustrate the positive
                                                                                  impacts the program can
Midvale’s housing stock includes many homes that have been closed to
                                                                                  achieve for residents and
occupancy and contribute to neighborhood blight. The City shall create
                                                                                  neighborhoods.
a program that will fund the acquisition, demolition, and redevelopment
of these properties in order to remove blighted homes from residential
neighborhoods and replace them with new affordable single-family homes.
Through this program the City will address home affordability, neighborhood
stability, and home ownership issues in Midvale. This program is intended to
target some of the most challenging properties in Midvale that have additional
crime and anti-social problems.

5 YEAR OBJECTIVES
 • Improve public scoring of housing quality from 6 to 7 out of 10 points
   through future housing survey.
 • Renovation of 500 single-family residential units through home renovation
   program.
 • $5,500,000 value in permitted renovations for single-family homes.




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                         33
                                                                                                               TOTAL VALUE
                                                                                                             PER SQUARE FOOT



                                                                                                              $0.01 - $19.00 ( 1840 total )
                                                                                                              $19.01 - $26.28 ( 1839 total )
                                                                                                              $26.29 - $34.00 ( 1845 total )
                                                                                                              $34.01 - $148.99 ( 1841 total )
                                                                                                              $149.00 - $750.29 ( 1899 total )
                                                                                                              City Limits




                                                                                                                  4

Figure 6. Total Value per square foot of Midvale properties.


                                                  HOME OWNERSHIP

                                                  Rental units are the dominant component of Midvale’s housing market, with
                                                  58% of Midvale’s homes being rented. Midvale’s home ownership rate is
                                                  24% below that of Salt Lake County. Additionally, 52% of Midvale residents
                                                  spend less than 5 years in their home, highlighting that for many of Midvale’s
                                                  residents, Midvale is just a stop on their housing journey. Supporting
                                                  homeownership is important for the community because it provides
                                                  opportunities for wealth generation for residents and greater neighborhood
                                                  stability. The City should encourage or incentivize the development of
                                                  new ownership opportunities in multiple housing types, including single-
Midvale's home ownership rate is 24
                                                  family homes, townhouses, row houses, and condominiums. Additionally,
percent less than Salt Lake County. The           focus should be given to helping households making 60-80% of AMI find
main reason renters remain renting is             opportunities for homeownership.
because of affordability.
                                                  RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOALS
                                                  Expand the variety of housing opportunities to allow for more choices in types
                                                  and locations of residences. This includes providing for a mixture of housing
                                                  sizes, densities, types and affordability in each area of the City.
                                                  Encourage higher density residential in appropriate locations in opportunity
                                                  areas to create the market needed for viable commercial development.


34                                                                                                      Midvale City Housing Plan
POLICIES

H01      Down Payment Assistance Program for New Homeowners
The City shall work with regional housing partners to establish a down-
payment assistance program for new homeowners that make 60-80% of AMI.
This program will allow potential homeowners the opportunity to receive
funding from the City for a down payment and/or closing costs associated
with the purchase of a home in Midvale. The program should also provide
additional incentives, such as repayment forgiveness for longevity in the home     FLORENTINE VILLAS
or investment in home improvements. A down-payment assistance program
                                                                                   7497 Siena Vista Lane
will help to incentivize home ownership in Midvale.
                                                                                   The Florentine Villas is part
H02 Encourage the Development of for Purchase Multi-Family Housing Units           of the Bingham Junction
The City will work with developers to encourage the development of multi-          district and was built
family units that will be for sale products in order to increase the variety of    in 2010. It contains 214
housing types that are for sale in Midvale.                                        affordable units and is
                                                                                   located just steps from the
5 YEAR OBJECTIVES                                                                  Bingham Junction TRAX
                                                                                   station.
 • Provide down-payment assistance to a minimum of 15 new homeowners
                                                                                   The Florentine Villas
                                                                                   received an interest free
NEIGHBORHOOD STABILITY                                                             loan of over $1 million from
                                                                                   a federal stimulus package.
Midvale’s neighborhoods each offer a unique physical and demographic
character. The combination of these characteristics can result in a                Image source: apartments.com
neighborhood with long-term residents that are invested in the community, as
easily as it can result in a neighborhood that feels separated from the larger
community with residents leaving when their circumstances allow. Overall,
Midvale is the home to a relatively young population, with small households,
and a tendency to rent rather than own. Most residents have lived in their
home for five-years or less and tend to move to other communities when their
families grow, or their financial position improves. Survey results from current
residents, show a significant proportion of the population moved to Midvale
specifically because the housing was affordable, and Midvale provides quick
access to other communities for work and shopping. While many residents like
their neighbors and neighborhood, there is a clear interest in creating more
neighborhood scale amenities and services. To support neighborhood stability
and increase demand to live in Midvale, the City shall work with residents to
improve the quality of life within residential neighborhoods through changes
to the zoning code, support of neighborhood services, and the development of
new public amenities.

RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOAL
Maintain and strengthen stable neighborhoods. This goal includes preserving
the quality and character of existing neighborhoods; providing neighborhoods
with better connectivity and access to recreational amenities; and ensuring
that infill and adjacent development is compatible with the neighborhood.


Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                          35
                                        POLICIES

                                        NS01     Support Code Enforcement Efforts
                                        The City shall provide the resources and resolve to enforce City Code for the
                                        purposes of maintaining a high-quality of life for Midvale’s residents.

                                        NS02     Support the Development of Walkable Neighborhoods Through
                                                 Improved Connectivity, Development of Neighborhood Scaled
                                                 Amenities, Good Urban Design
                                        Home value is a simple method for measuring what makes a stable and
                                        desirable community. Neighborhoods that offer neighborhood scale retail
                                        and services, strategically programmed open space, high-quality design of
                                        the public realm, and clear connections with the wider community are shown
                                        to result in higher home prices, because of greater demand. While many
                                        neighborhoods in Midvale include some of these features, there are large
                                        swaths of the city where residents must drive to recreate, shop, and work. The
                                        City shall explore ways to encourage neighborhood scale retail and services
                                        and other amenities through changes to land use regulations, as well as
                                        plan for future public improvements that will serve the greatest number of
                                        residents.

                                        5 YEAR OBJECTIVES
                                         • Achieve a rate of 51% of households that have lived in their home for more
                                           than 5-years.

52 percent of Midvale residents spend
less than 5 years in their home.        EDUCATION

                                        Throughout the planning effort, it has become clear that residents have
                                        concerns about housing policies at the macro level, as well as personal
                                        concerns about their rights as homeowners and renters. To address these
                                        concerns the City shall work on developing high-quality housing data to
                                        support future policy decisions, as well as methods for providing that data to
                                        the public in an accessible and clear way. Additionally, the City will work with
                                        community partners to provide educational opportunities for homeowners,
                                        renters, and landlords to help them understand their rights, risks, and
                                        responsibilities.

                                        RELATED GENERAL PLAN GOAL
                                        The General Plan Goals do not identify a need for better housing education,
                                        however, the City understands its role in serving the community, and this
                                        includes the provision of better and more readily available housing information
                                        on resources and services.




36                                                                                              Midvale City Housing Plan
POLICIES

E01      Maintain and Distribute 		
         Housing Data and Information
The City intends to build upon its current
housing data and information to create
a database of easily accessible housing
facts and figures which will be hosted on
the City website. This information will
also assist in the education of Planning
Commissioners and City Council Officials
in relation to Midvale’s housing needs
and challenges and help to inform them
of the realities of Midvale’s housing
market.

E02      Provide Education 		
         Opportunities for Renters
         and Landlords with Housing
         Industry Partners
The City will support the needs
of residents by collaborating with
community housing partners to provide
classes and educational materials
that provide information on housing          Survey respondents stated the lack of affordable housing is keeping them from staying
resources, as well as explain the rights     in Midvale.
and responsibilities of renters and
landlords.

E03      Provide Homeownership Education with Housing Partners
Throughout the public consultation process, one of the frequent issues
brought up was the lack of education on available housing resources
throughout the City. The education program would focus on providing easy
to understand and accessible education on available housing resources in the
City. This program will be in cooperation with housing service partners in the
City and Salt Lake County. The City shall establish a homeowner education
program in cooperation with housing service providers and partners to be held
at different times throughout the year.


5 YEAR OBJECTIVES
 • Provide 10 housing education classes
 • Provide 10 homeownership trainings in partnership with housing partners




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                        37
     PLAN IMPLEMENTATION
     Through the identification of the 6 major housing issues impacting Midvale
     residents, City staff has been able to identify a number of policy proposals
     that will address these issues. These policy proposals and their subsequent
     implementation strategy is key to the success of this plan, and in turn will
     position the City to begin the preparation process of a new plan, prior to the
     end of this plans 5-year life. The following policies and programs have been
     identified as the best solutions and remedies to Midvale’s current housing
     challenges. The table of policies outlines whether a policy proposal requires
     a modification to a current policy, the creation of a new policy, partnerships,
     creation of a new program, modifications to an existing program or the
     creation of new City ordinances or modifications to existing ones. Several of
     the proposals can be implemented in the short term, while others will require
     further study and analysis before the City can implement them.




38                                                         Midvale City Housing Plan
                                                                                             IMPLEMENTATION   REQUIRED
          POLICY                                    POLICY DETAILS
                                                                                               SCHEDULE         ACTION

 Promote and Incentivize      In supporting affordable housing, and increasing available
 the Development of           housing stock for the rental market, Midvale City
 Accessory Dwelling Units     proposes eliminating certain barriers to the development
                                                                                                 Year 1          Policy
 (ADUs)                       of Accessory Dwelling Units in order to encourage ADU
                              development in Midvale neighborhoods.


 Encourage Mixed-Income Through strategic planning, the City will encourage mixed
 Multi-Unit Developments income levels in multi-unit developments throughout the
 in Strategic Locations  City in strategic locations, near good transit links, amenities         Year 1          Policy
                              and services.


 Down-Payment                 The down-payment assistance program for new-
 Assistance Program for       homeowners allows potential homeowners the opportunity
 New Homeowners               to receive up to $5,000 to pay for a down payment and/or
                              closing costs as you purchase a home in Midvale City. The
                                                                                                                Program
                                                                                                 Year 1
                              principal will be forgiven at 20% per year as long as you
                                                                                                              Development
                              reside in the home.


 Focus Programs on            The City will endeavor to focus its housing programs, and
 Households Making 80%        to create housing programs for a target group of those
                                                                                                 Year 1          Policy
 AMI or less                  making 80% or less of AMI.


 Modify Rental Permits        The City recommends overhauling the current Rental
 Program to Generate          Permits Program for landlords. This proposal includes
 Revenue for Rental           all future business licensing for rental properties to
 Improvements                 include a list of the properties and their addresses and
                              the approximate proposed rental rates for each property.
                              Landlords shall be required to inform the business licensing       Year 1          Policy
                              department of any property address changes or any
                              additional properties to be included on the license. The
                              current license rates shall be renegotiated and determined
                              based on the numbers of properties per rental license.


 Provide Homeownership        Throughout the public consultation process, one of the
 Education with Housing       frequent issues brought up was the lack of education
 Partners                     on available housing resources throughout the City. The
                              education program would focus on providing easy to                                Program
                                                                                                 Year 1
                              understand and access education on available housing                            Development
                              resources in the City. This program will be in cooperation
                              with our housing service partners in the City and Salt Lake
                              County.




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                 39
                                                                                            IMPLEMENTATION         REQUIRED
        POLICY                                 POLICY DETAILS
                                                                                              SCHEDULE              ACTION
Support the                More walkable neighborhoods, coupled with the provision
Development of             of better transportation links, decreases the reliance on
Walkable Neighborhoods     private vehicle transportation. The lower number of cars in
Through Improved           our neighborhoods, the less parking that is required, and
Connectivity,              the safer Midvale neighborhood streets are for those who
                                                                                                Year 1                Policy
Development of             live there.
Neighborhood Scaled
Amenities, Good Urban
Design

Better Amenities and       Midvale communities require better and more easily
Recreational Services in   accessible amenities and recreational services. Midvale’s
the City                   current lack of community recreational facilities, coupled
                           with a projected growth that will cause Midvale’s
                           population to swell, highlights the need for additional and          Year 1                Policy
                           more up-to-date facilities and amenities that can help to
                           bring communities together and build stronger, healthier
                           and more resilient neighborhoods.

Maintain and Distribute    The City intends to build upon its current housing data
Housing Data and           and information to create a database of easily accessible                                Program
Information                housing facts and figures which will be hosted on the City           Year 1
                                                                                                                  Development
                           website.

Provide Educational        Feedback from the community and service providers
Opportunities for          highlighted a lack of educational support to assist with
Renters and Landlords      accessing currently available supports and resources
with Housing Industry      from housing industry partners. The City aims to create                                  Program
                                                                                                Year 1
Partners                   an educational resource in the form of classes to inform                               Development
                           and assist in members of the community accessing the
                           resources available to them.

Modernize Parking          Current parking requirements in specific areas are far
Regulations to Support     too excessive and are a barrier to proper sustainable
Residential Development    development. In TOD areas, and other central locations
                           which are served by good transportation links, parking
                           requirements should be reduced. In TOD zones, significantly          Year 2                Policy
                           reduced parking requirements will help the development
                           function as it is supposed to – through the utilization of the
                           available mass transit linkages.

Modernize Setback          The City needs to revisit its current setback and open space
and Open Space             requirements and propose a new alternative that looks at
                                                                                                Year 2                Policy
Requirements               the City’s future growth potential and the land demands
                           that this will place upon Midvale.




40                                                                                                       Midvale City Housing Plan
                                                                                            IMPLEMENTATION   REQUIRED
         POLICY                                   POLICY DETAILS
                                                                                              SCHEDULE         ACTION
  Adopt By-Right             By right development refers to projects that are permitted
 Development in Strategic    under their current zoning and do not require any
 Locations (Especially       legislative action by the Board of Supervisors or the Board        Year 2          Policy
 around TOD)                 of Zoning Appeals. They are approved administratively and
                             do not require public hearings.

 Include Density Bonuses     The City will promote a density bonus program for
 for Affordable Housing in   affordable housing developments in the City, located in the
 Strategic Locations         identified opportunity areas of the 2016 General Plan for          Year 2          Policy
                             Midvale.

 Simplification of           Overhaul the subdivision approval process through
 Subdivision Process         the approval of minor sub-division (i.e. for 3 or less
                             lots) applications by administrative functions, general
                             subdivision applications of 4-9 lots through Planning
                             Commission functions following the guidelines outlined in
                             16.04.050 of the City’s Code. In the case of subdivisions of
                             10 or more lots, the process should follow that outlined           Year 2          Policy
                             in 16.04.040 of the City’s Code. The reason for this is to
                             provide a more streamlined approach to minor and general
                             subdivisions, but to still allow for Planning Commission
                             and City Council approval for those instances where a
                             proposed subdivision may have a significant impact on a
                             neighborhood.
 Consider Use of             The acquisition of land is a focus of some of Midvale’s
 Community Land Trust        housing programs. To ensure on-going affordability, the
                             City will adopt where necessary a Community Land Trust
                             model where the City will maintain ownership of the land
                             and will provide a for sale product on the land, which can                        Program
                                                                                                Year 2
                             be purchased by any qualifying applicant. The affordability                     Development
                             component in ensured through the purchase of the
                             improvement on the land, with the homeowner leasing
                             the land at a low cost but owning the improvement on the
                             land.

 Provide Home                Feedback from the community and service providers
 Acquisition an Ownership    highlighted a lack of educational support to assist with
 Classes with Housing        accessing currently available supports and resources
 Industry Partners           from housing industry partners. The City aims to create                           Program
                                                                                                Year 2
                             an educational resource in the form of classes to inform                        Development
                             and assist in members of the community accessing the
                             resources available to them.

 Provide a Financial         The home repair incentive program would provide low
                                                                                                               Program
 Incentive to Repair         interest loans for Midvale residents and landlords to repair       Year 2
                                                                                                             Development
 Homes                       and renovate their homes.



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                41
                                                                                              IMPLEMENTATION          REQUIRED
          POLICY                                  POLICY DETAILS
                                                                                                 SCHEDULE              ACTION
Reduction in Lot Size         Midvale’s available land for residential development is
Requirements in               constantly decreasing. In order to ensure that there is still
Residential Zones             opportunities for current and future single-family home              Year 3                Policy
                              developments, the City recommends a reduction in the lot
                              size requirements for single-family home zoning.

Strategically                 Where neighborhoods have access to services and
Encourage Density             amenities such as those understood to promote the
in Neighborhoods of           neighborhoods of opportunity idea, strategic density shall
Opportunity                   be encouraged, through ADU’s and 2-, 3-, and 4-plexes or
                                                                                                   Year 3                Policy
i.e. neighborhoods with       any other property types deemed to be acceptable in these
access to jobs, open space,   neighborhoods.
fresh food, neighborhood
services etc.
Encourage the                 The City will work with developers to encourage the
Development of for            development of multi-family units that will be for sale
                                                                                                   Year 3                Policy
Purchase Multi-Family         products in order to increase the variety of housing types
Housing Units                 that are for sale in Midvale.
Encourage the                 Missing Middle is a range of multi-unit or clustered housing
Development of Missing        types compatible in scale with single-family homes that
Middle Housing to             help meet the growing demand for walkable urban living.
Accommodate Housing           These types provide diverse housing options along a
Choice for People at All      spectrum of affordability, including duplexes, fourplexes,
Stages of Life                and bungalow courts, to support walkable communities,
                              locally-serving retail, and public transportation options.
                              Missing Middle Housing provides a solution to the                    Year 4                Policy
                              mismatch between the available U.S. housing stock and
                              shifting demographics combined with the growing demand
                              for walkability. The City will endeavor to encourage and
                              promote this type of development in Midvale to meet
                              current and future needs of Midvale’s residents and to
                              reflect our ever-changing demographics as a city.

Make Changes to               Providing more retail type opportunities in neighborhoods
Current Zoning to             creates a more positive and compact neighborhood where
Increase Neighborhood         the simple and essential things that Midvale citizens
                                                                                                   Year 4                Policy
Commercial                    require in their life are easily accessible without the need
Opportunities                 for long travel distances to go to grocery stores etc.
Throughout the City
Create a Program to           There is a significant number of vacant and run-down
Acquire and Redevelop         residential properties throughout Midvale. This program
Blighted Residential          seeks to identify these properties, and through the
Units in Single Family        strategic acquisition of these properties, the City would       Currently Adopted
                                                                                                                       Program
Neighborhoods                 acquire and redevelop the properties for moderate to             and Program in
                              low-income housing purposes. This program would                                        Development
                                                                                                   Action
                              eliminate neighborhood blight in certain locations and also
                              re-introduce usable housing stock for current and future
                              Midvale residents at an affordable cost.

42                                                                                                          Midvale City Housing Plan
HOUSING SUPPLY DATA
Midvale’s population has changed over the last ten years. With this growth
in population, Midvale has also experienced a growth in the demand for
affordable housing, with the current supply not being able to meet the
demands of the city’s residents. The following section deals with the specific
details of Midvale’s housing market and looks at the breakdown of housing
units based on affordability levels, housing types and Area Median Income
(AMI).




Midvale City Housing Plan                                                        43
                                 2010 American 2016 American
                                  Community     Community           80% AMI      60% AMI         30% AMI
                                    Survey        Survey
      Median HOUSEHOLD
                                     $58,004             $64,601   $51,680.80   $38,760.60      $19,380.30
      income
      1-person household             $30,361             $34,113   $27,290.40   $20,467.80      $10,233.90

      2-person household             $60,637             $67,123   $53,698.40   $40,273.80      $20,136.90

      3-person household             $68,167             $76,109   $60,887.20   $45,665.40      $22,832.70

      4-person household             $74,445             $84,644   $67,715.20   $50,786.40      $25,393.20

      5-person household             $74,099             $80,801   $64,640.80   $48,480.60      $24,240.30

      6-person household             $80,529             $86,423   $69,138.40   $51,853.80      $25,926.90

      ≥ 7-person household           $84,994             $88,981   $71,184.80   $53,388.60      $26,694.30


      Median FAMILY
                                     $67,451             $75,066   $60,052.80   $45,039.60      $22,519.80
      income
      2-person household             $60,473             $65,817   $52,653.60   $39,490.20      $19,745.10

      3-person household             $66,267             $75,152   $60,121.60   $42,691.20      $22,545.10

      4-person household             $73,544             $84,384   $67,507.20   $50,630.40      $25,315.20

      5-person household             $74,046             $80,167   $64,133.60   $48,100.20      $24,050.10

      6-person household             $80,593             $86,810   $69,448.00   $52,086.00      $26,043.00

      ≥ 7-person household           $83,674             $86,184   $68,947.20   $51,710.40      $25,855.20

     Table 1. Area Median Income for Salt Lake County1




     1        Utah Department of Workforce Services



44                                                                                    Midvale City Housing Plan
The data provided in Table 2 highlights the shortages in available units throughout
Midvale that are affordable at three different levels of AMI, whereas Table 3 identifies
the projected growth in structure types by 2024 in comparison to the current
occupancy of each type of structure currently occupied for housing purposes in the
City. From the data provided through the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community
Survey, highlighted in Table 2, it is evident that the affordable housing production that
is being carried out in Midvale is largely in the 80% AMI bracket, with the 50% and
lower AMI levels experiencing a demand for affordable housing that cannot be met.
Unless there is additional emphasis placed upon the development of affordable housing
at these levels of AMI, the gap between the supply and demand is going to widen
beyond any ability to close it.




                                            Affordable Rental         Available Rental Affordable Units - Available Units -
    2018 Shortage     Renter Household
                                                  Units                    Units       Renter Households Renter Households

    ≤ 80% HAMFI               4,065                6,190                  4,050              2,125              -15
    ≤ 50% HAMFI               2,480                1,835                   860               -645              -1,620
    ≤ 30% HAMFI               1,595                 370                    160              -1,225             -1,435
Table 2. Calculation of Affordable Housing Demand for Midvale City1




1        U.S. Census Bureau



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                     45
                                        2010 American 2016 American                                 Difference
                                                                    Annual Growth
                                         Community     Community                  2024 Projection between 2017
                                                                       in Units
                                           Survey        Survey                                     and 2024
         TOTAL HOUSING UNITS
                                           11,388             12,669     209          13,898              1,229
         (ACS Table B25001)
         Total Occupied Units
                                           10,581             11,910     218          13,234              1,324
         (ACS Table B25032)


         Owner-Occupied
         Structures                        4,944              5,040       24           5,285               245
         (ACS Table B25032)
         1 unit, detached                  3,732              3,432      -50           3,231              -201
         1 unit, attached                   704                922        38           1,111               189
         2 units                            104                113        1             129                16
         3 or 4 units                        65                109        7             147                38
         5 to 9 units                       135                140        3             181                41
         10 to 19 units                      56                258        40            542                284
         20 to 49 units                      0                  7         1              8                  1
         50 or more units                    13                 8         -1             0                  -8
         Mobile Homes                       135                51        -15             0                 -51
         Boat, RV, Van, etc.                 0                  0         0              0                  0


         Renter-Occupied
         Structures                        5,637              6,870      194           7,950              1,080
         (ACS Table B25032)
         1 unit, detached                   658                649        -3            704                55
         1 unit, attached                   342                538        36            799                261
         2 units                            416                513        19            580                67
         3 or 4 units                       559                797        33            953                156
         5 to 9 units                       643                916        47           1,217               301
         10 to 19 units                    1,384              1,944       89           2,394               450
         20 to 49 units                    1,257               921       -56            531               -390
         50 or more units                   329                583        35            789                206
         Mobile Homes                        49                 9         -7             0                  -9
         Boat, RV, Van, etc.                 0                  0         0              0                  0
     Table 3. Supply Housing Units in Midvale by structure1




     1             U.S. Census Bureau



46                                                                                           Midvale City Housing Plan
GLOSSARY

Throughout the Housing Plan, there are a number of terms referred to that
you may not be overly familiar with. To assist you in navigating through the
Housing Plan, please refer to this section for any housing related terms that
you may be unfamiliar with. To provide the most comprehensive description
and explanation of each term, Midvale City has utilized the description of many
of these terms from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD).




ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT                                        BLIGHTED STRUCTURE
An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is a second dwelling          A structure is blighted when it exhibits objectively
unit created on a lot with a house, attached house or          determinable signs of deterioration sufficient to constitute
manufactured home. The second unit is created auxiliary        a threat to human health, safety, and public welfare.
to, and is smaller than, the main dwelling. ADUs can be
created in a variety of ways, including conversion of a        BY-RIGHT DEVELOPMENT
portion of an existing house, addition to an existing house,   By right development refers to projects that are permitted
conversion of an existing garage or the construction of an     under their current zoning and any review by the Planning
entirely new building.                                         Commission or City Council. They are approved at staff
                                                               level and do not require public hearings.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Housing for which the occupant is paying 30% or less of his    COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
or her income for gross housing costs, including utilities     Community land trusts are nonprofit, community-based
                                                               organizations designed to ensure community stewardship
AMERICAN COMMUNITY SURVEY (ACS)                                of land. Community land trusts can be used for many types
A nationwide survey designed to provide communities            of development (including commercial and retail) but are
with a fresh look at how they are changing. It is a critical   primarily used to ensure long-term housing affordability.
element in the Census Bureau’s re-engineered 2010              To do so, the trust acquires land and maintains ownership
census plan. The ACS collects information such as age,         of it permanently. With prospective homeowners, it enters
race, income, commute time to work, home value, veteran        into a long-term, renewable lease instead of a traditional
status, and other important data from U.S. households.         sale. When the homeowner sells, the family earns only a
                                                               portion of the increased property value. The remainder
AREA MEDIAN INCOME (AMI)                                       is kept by the trust, preserving the affordability for future
The Area Median Income (AMI) is the midpoint of a              low- to moderate-income families.
region’s income distribution for different size households.



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                                47
DENSITY                                                          designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping
Density refers to the volume of people who reside on a           accommodation for human beings.
specific area of land. Density is calculated at the acre level
                                                                 HOUSEHOLD
and is often referred to in terms such as low, medium and
high density, referring to the increasing volume of people       All the people who occupy a housing unit. A household
who can be supported in dwellings on residentially zoned         includes the related family members and all the unrelated
land.                                                            people, if any, such as lodgers, foster children, wards, or
                                                                 employees who share the housing unit. A person living
EMERGENCY SHELTER                                                alone in a housing unit, or a group of unrelated people
Any facility, the primary purpose of which is to provide         sharing a housing unit such as partners or roomers, is also
temporary or transitional shelter for the homeless in            counted as a household.
general or for specific populations of the homeless.
                                                                 LIFECYCLE HOUSING
FAMILY                                                           Housing and varying housing types that are accessible and
Family includes, but is not limited to, regardless of marital    usable by an individual or a household through all stages of
status, actual or perceived sexual orientation, or gender        their life.
identity, the following:
                                                                 LOW-INCOME
       1.   A single person, who may be an elderly person,
                                                                 Low income refers to individuals or families that are
            displaced person, disabled person, near-elderly
                                                                 earning a total of less than two times the federal poverty
            person, or any other single person; or,
                                                                 level. Low income uses family size and the total annual
       2.   A group of persons residing together, and such       income of all working household members to determine
            group includes, but is not limited to:               eligibility.
                 a.   A family with or without children (a
                      child who is temporarily away from         MISSING MIDDLE
                      the home because of placement in           Missing Middle is a range of multi-unit or clustered
                      foster care is considered a member of      housing types compatible in scale with single-family homes
                      the family);                               that help meet the growing demand for walkable urban
                 b.   An elderly family;                         living.

                 c.   A near-elderly family;                     MIXED-INCOME
                 d.   A disabled family;                         Mixed-income housing is a model for affordable housing
                 e.   A displaced family; and,                   that does not concentrate on building in dense, urban
                                                                 areas. It is intended to provide good housing for people
                 f.   The remaining member of a tenant
                                                                 with diverse income classifications. The mix of affordable
                      family.
                                                                 and market-rate units that make up mixed-income
HOMELESS                                                         developments differs from community to community
                                                                 and depends partly on the local housing market and the
An individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate
                                                                 marketability of the units themselves. Mixed-housing
nighttime residence; as well an individual who has a
                                                                 communities include diverse types of housing, including
primary nighttime residence that is a supervised publicly
                                                                 apartments, single-family homes and town homes.
or privately operated shelter designed to provide
temporary living accommodations, an institution that             MODERATE-INCOME
provides a temporary residence for individuals intended
                                                                 Households whose incomes are between 81 percent
to be institutionalized; or a public or private place not
                                                                 and 95 percent of the median income for the area, as



48                                                                                                  Midvale City Housing Plan
determined by HUD, with adjustments for smaller or larger    VACANT UNIT
families. HUD may establish income ceilings higher or        A dwelling unit that has been vacant for not less than nine
lower than 95 percent of the median for the area on the      consecutive months.
basis of HUD’s findings that such variations are necessary
because of prevailing levels of construction costs, fair     VERY-LOW INCOME
market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes.
                                                             Households with a total income of 50 percent or less of the
                                                             median income are considered very-low-income.
NATURALLY OCCURRING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Affordable housing that does not rely on direct              ZONING
government subsidies to make the housing affordable.
                                                             The classification of land by types of uses permitted
                                                             and prohibited in a given district, and by densities and
REHABILITATION
                                                             intensities permitted and prohibited, including regulations
The labor, materials, tools, and other costs of improving    regarding building location on lots.
buildings, other than minor or routine repairs.

SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY/HOUSE
A single-unit family residence, detached or attached to
other housing structures.

SUBSIDIZED HOUSING
Government sponsored economic assistance aimed
towards alleviating housing costs and expenses for
impoverished people with low to moderate-incomes.
Forms of subsidies include direct housing subsidies, non-
profit housing, public housing, rent supplements, and
some forms of co-operative and private sector housing.

SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES
Urban, suburban, and rural places that successfully
integrate housing, land use, economic and workforce
development, transportation, and infrastructure
investments in a manner that empowers jurisdictions to
consider the interdependent challenges of: 1) economic
competitiveness and revitalization; 2) social equity,
inclusion, and access to opportunity; 3) energy use and
climate change; and 4) public health and environmental
impact.

TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)
Development of commercial space, housing services, and
job opportunities close to public transportation, thereby
reducing dependence on automobiles. TODs are typically
designed to include a mix of land uses within a quarter-
mile walking distance of transit stops or core commercial
areas.



Midvale City Housing Plan                                                                                             49
50   Midvale City Housing Plan
