                                   Midvale city
Who is filling out this report?
Moira Gray
Economic Development and RDA Project Manager
mgray@midvaleut.gov
3855229420

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://cms1files.revize.com/midvale/Document%20Center/Government/Departments/Recorders
%20Office/Midvale%20City%20Ordinances/2022/Ordinance%20No%202022O14001.pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://cms1files.revize.com/midvale/Document%20Center/Government/Departments/Redevelo
pment%20Agency/Housing/Housing%20Plan/Implementation%20Plan%20Genera.pdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           492
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://planning-and-zoning-geohub-website-midvale.hub.arcgis.com/

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
The last zone map amendment was on March 18, 2025, from a commercial zone to a multi-
family residential zone. The last text amendment occurred on June 17, 2025, and it was to
revise conceptual plans and locations of public roads within the Jordan Bluffs area.

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
3,262



                                                                                                493
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
221 units over 82 parcels

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
46 units over 54 parcels

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
Midvale City does not require “will-serve letters” or their equivalent.


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
The current market conditions are making it very difficult for developers to finance projects as
interest rates are still high. Although inflation rates have begun to stabilize, the costs of labor
and materials are still high, making it very difficult for developers to make their projects pencil.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Other
Midvale does not track ADU rentals




                                                                                                       494
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
156 – This is an estimate based on the number of ADU building permits approved on average
per year. Midvale City is currently working with its software vendor to find a way to better track
ADUs.
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
6 with 1 currently under review.

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
Midvale does not differentiate on its business license application whether a rental unit is for an
ADU or not. it is simply a residential landlord business license application.


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
Not applicable. Number of permits entered above.




                                                                                                 495
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
K
L
N
O
P
U

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
K
• Promote and implement the Upper Floor Housing Initiative to revitalize the Main Street CDA
area and increase moderate income housing. • Promote the Good Landlord Program. •
Approach developers and negotiate moderate income housing incentives through Tax
Increment Reimbursement Agreements (TIRA). • Review housing incentive programs, assess
number of Moderate-Income Housing Units and make improvements to the application process

L
Create impact fee policy to increase moderate income housing and incorporate the policy into
city code as adopted by City Council.

N
Monitor contractor and program performance • Support 10 households with DPA and
homeownership education • Support up to 10 households with Home Repair loan or grant •
Require quarterly reports from program administrator Market and promote the programs:
mailers, brochures, website information

O
Purchase property from UDOT and seek out partner to develop and manage a duplex for
affordable housing.




                                                                                               496
P
• Monitor existing tax increment reimbursement agreements involving affordable housing
incentives. • Using RDA funds to support new and future affordable housing programs including:
DPA, Home Improvement Loan/Grant program, Upper Floor Housing Initiative

U
Implement and monitor the station area plan.




3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
K
Upper Floor Housing Initiative • There is currently a 3-story apartment community under
construction that is utilizing our Upper Floor Housing Initiative to keep 50 units at 60% AMI. This
initiative is creating more moderate-income housing supply along Midvale Main Street. Promote
the Good Landlord Program • The Good Landlord Program is required in order to participate in
our Upper Floor Housing Initiative program. The program (and its associated savings for
landlords) is featured on the cover page of Midvale’s Residential Landlord Application and is
also marketed on our Midvale City Business License webpage. 39 people signed up for the
Good Landlord Program during the reporting period. Approach Developers and negotiate
moderate income housing incentives through Tax Increment Reimbursement Agreements
(TIRA) • The Midvale City Redevelopment Agency continues to approach and has set up
multiple meetings with developers who have inquired about including affordable housing in their
developments, including interested developers who are looking into partnering with the city on a
future Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone. Review housing incentive programs, assess
number of Moderate-Income Housing Units and make improvements to the application process
• The Midvale City Redevelopment Agency is currently revising the Upper Floor Housing
Incentive program based on two completed development projects under the program. These
updates will also inform affordable housing projects across the city moving forward.

L
During the reporting period a Transportation Study was completed, and Midvale City decided to
not charge impact fees due to not fitting the eligible transportation requirements because of the
maturity of our transportation study. A Parks and Open Space Study is currently underway,
which will determine if any impact fees are eligible for parks. The City is currently working with a
consultant on the fee study, and its outcome may provide recommendations on implementing
impact fees for new developments.




                                                                                                 497
N
Monitor contractor and program performance • Midvale City continues to monitor our contractor,
NeighborWorks Salt Lake, as they administer our Down Payment Assistance and Home Repair
Loan programs. The Down Payment Assistance program provides loans of up to $20,000.00
($25,000.00 for employees of the municipality or employees of public employers that operate
within county/municipality). The Home Repair Loan program assists low-to-moderate income
individuals/families who are at 80% AMI and below. These programs help to stabilize
households in the City and improve housing stock quality and diversity. • During the reporting
period we changed from quarterly reports from our program administrator to monthly reports.
During the reporting period we completed the following loans/grants: • 3 Down Payment
Assistance loans for individuals/families at or under 80% AMI. • 9 Home Repair Loans for
individuals/families at or under 80% AMI Market and promote the programs: mailers, brochures,
website information • Marketing to promote our housing programs is handled by the
administrator. NeighborWorks continues to promote our Home Repair and Down Payment
Assistance programs at senior centers, libraries, and other targeted areas. The programs are
also featured on our respective websites, and the City has flyers for the programs available. In
addition, in October of 2024 Midvale sent flyers advertising the programs to every household in
Midvale (over 16,500 flyers).

O
Midvale City is currently preparing a plan and budget for the purchase of a property owned by
UDOT. Once purchased, the City will work with a partner organization(s) to build and manage a
duplex for affordable housing.

P
Monitor existing tax increment reimbursement agreements involving affordable housing
incentives. • Midvale City continues to monitor existing tax reimbursement agreements. Using
RDA funds to support new and future affordable housing programs including: DPA, Home
Improvement Loan/Grant program, Upper Floor Housing Initiative • Midvale continues to expand
its affordable housing programs, including our Down Payment Assistance and Home Repair
Loan (HRLP) Programs. During the reporting period the HRLP was awarded an additional
$100,000.00 in CDBG funds, in addition to its existing program budget of $100,000.00.

U
In the previous reporting period Midvale approved three Station Area Plans. All three plans were
approved and funded by WFRC. During the reporting period, Midvale’s City Council made
changes to the Transit Oriented Development Overlay Zone in order to implement
recommendations made in the Station Area Plans. A feasibility study is currently underway to
look into adding a trail to traverse the Center Street and Fort Union Station Areas. Two
developments have been approved within the Fort Union Station Area, and one of them is
underway.




                                                                                              498
4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
K
No land use regulations or decisions were necessary.

L
Thus far no land use regulations or decisions have been necessary in implementing this
strategy.

N
No land use regulation or decision was needed to implement this strategy.

O
No land use regulations or decisions have been needed to implement this strategy.

P
No land use regulations or decisions were needed to implement this strategy.

U
The Midvale City Council amended the Transit Oriented Overlay Zone (TODO) to align with
state code requirements for HTRZs, best practices for walkable urban development, and
general best practices for code writing. This amendment also included an incentive mechanism
to encourage mixed-use in areas where it is not required.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
K
Approaching Developers regarding TIRAs has been slowed down by current market conditions,
as many are hesitant to start new projects in the current market.

L
Thus far no barriers have been identified while implementing this strategy.




                                                                                          499
N
NeighborWorks Salt Lake has found it difficult to find individuals who qualify for the Down
Assistant Payment Assistance and Home Repair programs. There has been a high volume of
interest from home buyers and realtors, but many households who fall below the 80% AMI
threshold are not qualifying due to high housing costs and interest rates.

O
A barrier when trying to implement this strategy has been putting together the timing of when to
create a proposal, purchase the property, apply for funding, etc.

P
Finding qualified applicants for our Home Improve Loan/Grant program and Down Payment
Assistance programs has been difficult.

U
One barrier in implementing this strategy has been finding developers interested in starting new
projects within the Station Areas.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
K
The market has responded favorably to the implementation of our Good Landlord Program, as
seen by the large number of sign-ups during the reporting period. Our other initiatives are also
receiving positive feedback but are growing at a slower rate.

L
The City is monitoring the possible market response to the implementation of impact fees for
new developments.

N
There is a high volume of interest, but implementation continues to be difficult due to housing
costs and interest rates.

O
Stakeholders seem to be interested in participating in this project.

P
The market has responded favorably to our Upper Floor Housing Initiative, and there is interest
in future projects.




                                                                                               500
U
The market has responded favorably, if slowly, to the implementation of this strategy. There are
two approved developments within the Fort Union Station Area, but only one is currently
underway.




7.       Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
K
https://midvale.utah.gov/government/departments/redevelopment_agency/housing/main_street_
upper-floor_affordable_housing_initiative.php

L

N
https://engagemidvale.com/housing-programs

O

P
https://engagemidvale.com/housing-programs

U
https://cms1files.revize.com/midvale/Document%20Center/Government/Departments/Recorders
%20Office/Midvale%20City%20Ordinances/2025/Item%206%20TODO.pdf




       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
K
F_1NsOLK5egRb92tb
MIH Good Landlord Program Application.pdf
2097152
application/pdf

L

N

O

P

U




                                                                                              501
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Case studies for strategies,Reporting technical assistance,Guidebooks for planning and
reporting


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
N/A


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   502
Midvale - amended response in consultation with Housing & Community Development
staff

We do have an adopted plan amendment that was passed prior to 2024 that included X as a
strategy. On September 20, 2022 Midvale adopted Ordinance No. 2022-O-14, which amended
our General Plan to comply with the Moderate Income Housing Element. This plan amendment
includes creating an HTRZ as Strategy 7. Below is a brief paragraph describing the actions we
took during the reporting period regarding Strategy X.

Strategy X
During the reporting period Midvale City continued to work on the creation of a Housing and
Transit Reinvestment Zone (HTRZ). These efforts included amending a Transit Oriented
Overlay Zone (TODO) to align with the state requirements for HTRZs, identifying the parcels to
be included, writing the proforma, and starting to write the application.

Barriers to implementing the strategy:
A barrier to implementing the creation of an HTRZ in Midvale has been a lack of developer
interest, and the large number of separate parcels that will need to be compiled and combined
for future development to take place.

Market response:
The market (i.e. developers) have not yet expressed an interest in developing the area
surrounding our high transit areas.




                                                                                            503
