MIDVALE CITY
       GENERAL PLAN 2016

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN   1
Acknowledgments

THE MIDVALE COMMUNITY
Special appreciation is given to all community members who participated in stakeholder interviews,
attended General Plan meetings and events, completed surveys, and provided their comments throughout
this process.


MAYOR JOANN B. SEGHINI                             STEERING COMMITTEE
                                                   Mayor JoAnn B. Seghini
KANE LOADER, CITY MANAGER                          Paul Golver, City Councilmember
                                                   Richard Judkins, Planning Commissioner
CITY COUNCIL                                       Phillip Hill, Community Development Director
Steve Brown                                        Lesley Burns, City Planner
Paul Glover                                        Matt Hilderman, Associate Planner
Paul Hunt                                          Keith Ludwig, City Engineer
Wayne Sharp                                        Christopher Butte, Economic Development Director
Quinn Sperry                                       Danny Walz, Redevelopment Agency Director
                                                   Annaliese Eichelberger, RDA Project Manager

PLANNING COMMISSION
Richard Judkins, Chair                             CONSULTANT TEAM
Kass Wallin, Vice Chair                            Bruce Meighen, Logan Simpson
Allen Litster                                      Jim Carter, Logan Simpson
Colleen Costello                                   Krissy Gilmore, Logan Simpson
Shane Liedtke                                      Tim Sullivan, Parametrix
Don Slick                                          Kai Tohinaka, Parametrix
                                                   Fred Philpot, Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham

MIDVALE STAFF
Phillip Hill, Community Development Director
Lesley Burns, City Planner
Matt Hilderman, Associate Planner
Keith Ludwig, City Engineer
Christopher Butte, Economic Development Director
Danny Walz, Redevelopment Agency Director
Annaliese Eichelberger, RDA Project Manager




2
Table of Contents




1         OUR VISION        Background.......................................... 1
                            Introduction.......................................... 2
                            Implementing the Plan............................. 3
                            How to Use the Plan/Plan Development........... 4
                            Public Involvement................................... 5
                            Establishing the Vision.............................. 6
                            Our Vision............................................ 7




2         OUR
          FOUNDATION
                            City Development and Planning History............ 8
                            Existing Conditions and Trends...................... 13
                                         Land Use............................................... 13
                                         Residential Development and Housing...... 17
                                         Commercial Development and Economic
                                         Sustainability........................................... 21
                                         Transportation and Mobility..................... 26
                                         Public Facilities, Services, and Amenities..... 35




3
                                         Parks and Recreation............................... 38

                            Land Use............................................. 44
          OUR PLAN          Residential Development and Housing......... 56
                            Commercial Development and Economic
                            Sustainability......................................... 57
                            Transportation and Mobility......................... 58
                            Public Facilities, Services, and Amenities............ 60
                            Parks, Recreation, and Open Space................. 61




4         OUR
          COMMITMENT
                            Implementation Initiatives.......................... 62




                            Appendices........................................... A- 1
                                          A: LYRB Sales Tax Analysis........................ A-2
                                          B: Parametrix Transportation Assessment.. A-23
                                          C: Neighborhood Assessment................... A-28




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                               3
    THIS PAGE IS LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK




4
1                                                                OUR VISION




BACKGROUND
Midvale is a city roughly six square miles in area located in the center of the Salt Lake Valley. It is home to a
population of approximately 34,000 residents, with the work week daytime population increasing by roughly
30,000. Midvale has many large employers including corporate headquarters for Overstock.com, Savage
Industries, FLSmidth and CHG Healthcare. Midvale’s slogan, “In the Middle of Everything”, is a reflection of its
central location in the Salt Lake Valley, and its connections to other parts of the Valley and the Wasatch Front by
a variety of modes of transportation. Midvale is located at the intersection of I-15 and I-215 and has three TRAX
stops with direct access to UTA’s north-south line and the Mid-Jordan line. This central location and ready access,
along with the City’s dedication to a fiber optic network, are among the reasons Midvale enjoys such a diverse
economy.

Midvale is a diverse community, with a number of vibrant and distinct neighborhoods and commercial areas.
With a few exceptions, most areas of Midvale have been developed. Midvale has many stable neighborhoods
where new development activity is not anticipated in the near future. The west side of the City, however, is
experiencing significant on-going development within the Bingham Junction area, and potential development
with respect to the Jordan Bluffs property.

Commercial land uses in some areas of the City are not optimal, and redevelopment of underutilized land in
these areas is expected as market forces increase development pressure. Particular areas of State Street are in
transition from low intensity commercial and light industrial uses towards higher-intensity commercial and higher
density residential uses as demand for strategically located properties increases. Midvale has an opportunity to
solidify its municipal center with continuing development and redevelopment along Main Street. The on-going
development within the Bingham Junction area, west of Main Street, is increasing the demand for a walkable
retail and commercial district, and it is anticipated that Main Street will continue to develop as an authentic,
historic town center.
MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                      1
INTRODUCTION
This 2016 Midvale General Plan establishes a vision for the        Regional Context
future of the City and serves as a policy document for decision-
making for the development of Midvale over the next 8-10
years. The Plan identifies goals for six plan elements: land
use; housing and demographics; commercial and economic
development; transportation and mobility; public facilities
and services; and parks, recreation and open space. The Plan
also includes recommendations for short- and long-term
implementation of the goals of the General Plan.

This General Plan is based on the current vision and values of
the City’s residents, business owners, property owners, and
stakeholders. The Plan goes further than simply updating
the data and history of the 2003 Midvale General Plan. This
Plan acknowledges the character and diversity of Midvale’s
neighborhood areas and envisions the future of Midvale by
identifying those locations in the City. The Plan identifies each
neighborhood where little change is expected, and those where transition is expected in response to market and
other forces and to take advantage of emerging opportunities and trends. Midvale strives to be forward-thinking
and community-driven. While valuing and preserving the attributes of the City and its neighborhoods that make
Midvale distinctive, the City takes advantage of timely opportunities to provide the best quality of life for its
citizens, visitors, and businesses in the years to come. The General Plan is designed to move the community
forward and to maintain on-going dialogue among its residents and stakeholders as the City experiences growth
and change.


WHY PLAN?
The General Plan is one of the most important documents for Midvale because it answers important questions
about what people can expect for the future of their community. Questions like, “What will happen to the vacant
lot next to my house?” and “Where should I locate my business?” Without a General Plan, these questions and
many more are difficult to answer, and many decisions, including investment decisions of households, utilities,
businesses, and the City are not as informed.


IMPORTANCE OF THE GENERAL PLAN
In the State of Utah, general plans, sometimes called comprehensive plans, are advisory documents used to
guide land development decisions. Because they are derived from public input about what people want for their
community, the goals and future land use plan designations of the General Plan have an important role to play
in many regulatory decisions the City makes surrounding land use, such as rezoning, and updates to City codes
and standards. When a development proposal is submitted to the City, the General Plan is referenced and staff
recommendations are expected to be consistent with the goals of the General Plan. When undertaking updates
to its codes, the City uses the General Plan for guidance to ensure the codes are consistent with General Plan
goals.




2
IMPLEMENTING THE PLAN
Implementation of the Midvale General Plan will require the support and effort of the entire City. Elected officials,
City Departments and other government and non-governmental organizations all have specific roles.

Several of the recommended implementation strategies involve additional planning at a more detailed level.
One example is the preparation of small area plans for the neighborhoods adjacent to the TRAX light rail
stops. The City Planning Staff will coordinate the administration of the Plan overall, and will be responsible for
organizing and managing implementation projects; producing and presenting reports to track recommended
projects; executing annual implementation work plans to achieve the goals of the Plan and direction from the
elected officials; exploring corrective actions when goals are not met; facilitating updates of the Plan; processing
amendments to the Plan and reviewing land development regulations, zoning maps and other regulatory
programs for consistency with the General Plan.

The City Council and Planning Commission will rely on the Plan as a guide to help make land use decisions that
ensure Midvale develops consistently with the Plan vision. The City Council will allocate the resources necessary
to implement policies and strategies in pursuit of Plan goals. Furthermore, they will oversee coordination
between neighboring jurisdictions and non-governmental service providers to find regional solutions to transit,
economics and infrastructure funding, appropriate service delivery and coordination of major capital projects.
Each year, elected officials will have the opportunity to:

    •   Receive and review the annual report presented by City staff;
    •   Determine the strategies to be included in the implementation work plan for the next year; and
    •   Budget appropriately to achieve the goals of the Plan

Effective implementation will require the City to proactively collaborate and partner with Salt Lake County, the
Utah Department of Transportation, Utah Transit Authority and other agencies and, at times, pool resources to
find mutually beneficial solutions to achieve Midvale’s goals. The support and participation of the community is
equally important to the success of the General Plan. It is essential that Midvale continues to be diligent in its
outreach efforts so that residents and stakeholders remain engaged and an active part of the process. Each
citizen should stay involved in local government and monitor the decisions of elected officials, planning staff and
other governmental and quasi-governmental agencies. Where government and other organizations are falling
short in the implementation of the Plan, the citizens must help make it happen.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                        3
HOW TO USE THIS PLAN
The General Plan is designed to be both an aspirational statement of the vision of the City’s residents and a
practical tool to guide future decision-making by Midvale City staff and officials. The Plan is organized into four
chapters.

Chapter 1. Our Vision: Introduces the purpose of the General Plan, describes the process used to develop the
General Plan, and articulates the City’s vision.

Chapter 2. Our Foundation: The foundation for the future of Midvale is established with an analysis of existing
conditions and trends, and an inventory of the assets of the community.

Chapter 3. Our Plan: Establishes the City’s goals.

Chapter 4. Our Commitment: Describes the implementation actions and projects the City will undertake to
achieve the General Plan goals and the City’s vision.




                                 PLAN DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
       FOUNDATION
       FALL/WINTER 2014          The Midvale General Plan development process occurred in five phases:

                                 Phase 1, Foundation, was a time to interview community stakeholders to
                                 learn about key issues and opportunities in the City. We also learned about
                                 key goals from the City.
       PLAN + POLICY
        ASSESSMENT               Phase 2, Plan and Policy Assessment, was a review of prior documents
          Winter 2015
                                 such as the previous general plan, existing policies, goals, ordinances, and
                                 implementation strategies.
    EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                 Phase 3, Existing Conditions Analysis, was an analysis of the current physical,
          ANALYSIS
          Spring 2015            cultural and demographic conditions to establish a baseline. Existing
                                 conditions are presented in Chapter 2 of the Plan.

    OPPORTUNITIES AND            Phase 4, Opportunities and Choices, assessed neighborhood areas to
    COMMUNITY CHOICES            identify specific opportunities and issues including areas of relative stability
     SUMMER/FALL 2015            and areas of transition.

                                 Phase 5, Plan Preparation and Adoption, refined choices determined by
                                 input received from the stakeholders, public, and City Council. With this
     PLAN PREPARATION            input, the planning team was able to draft goals for the General Plan.
       Winter/Spring 2016




4
Photos: (from left) Public Kickoff and Visioning Event, Harvest Days Block Party, City Council Worksession




PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT
A critical aspect of developing the Midvale General Plan was a public involvement process that solicited broad
community input to be truly representative of public interests and desires. The ideas gathered were instrumental
in articulating community values and vision, and identifying opportunities that led to development of the goals
and priority implementation projects for the future. The Plan process included targeted public outreach to
effectively reach and maintain open channels of communication with various segments of the community.
Multiple opportunities and a variety of methods were used to engage the public, key stakeholders, and elected
officials. A website was set up to provide meeting materials, information, public meeting notices, and process
updates.

PUBLIC EVENTS
Interviews with commissions, interested groups, business owners, citizens, and city staff were held early and
throughout the process to identify and assess issues, needs, attitudes and vision. Residents, business owners,
and stakeholders were also engaged through three public events focusing on that vision, community choices,
and the draft plan. Following each workshop, a summary was made available and online virtual workshops
were held to gather additional input from community members unable to attend the workshop. The planning
team also held several mobile plan hubs at organized community events, such as the annual Easter egg hunt
and Cinco de Mayo celebrations. The planning team participated in neighborhood block parties in August and
the Harvest Days festival with maps, flyers, and activities to engage City residents in conversations about their
neighborhoods and the City as a whole.

CITY COUNCIL
The planning team met several times with the City Council, including one interactive work session to determine
neighborhood opportunities. The Council was briefed following the Block Party and Harvest Days events which
provided key direction to move the Plan forward.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                    5
ESTABLISHING THE VISION
The vision for Midvale was created through input from the public, staff, and leadership of Midvale and is intended
to be a concise and cohesive statement of the desired future for Midvale. In addition to an overall vision for
the future of Midvale, vision statements were developed for six aspects of living and working in Midvale – land
use, housing and demographics, commercial and economic development, transportation and mobility, public
facilities and services, and parks, recreation, and open space. These are identified as critical factors which help
establish the essence of a complete city. As indicated previously, these elements form the basis of the General
Plan structure and provide an organizational framework and platform to clearly and concisely present the Plan’s
goals. These specific goals, in concert with descriptive maps and illustrations, describe the City’s desired future
character for each of the six Plan elements.

Midvale residents are proud that Midvale has made substantial community development and improvement
strides in the last decade. There is a strong desire among residents to create quality public and private places
and continue to improve Midvale’s image as a great place to live, work and play. While Midvale is characterized
by distinct neighborhoods, residents and stakeholders alike express a common desire to bring Midvale together
as a community, to galvanize a clearer identity, and ensure that Midvale’s diversity is strengthened as a key
community asset.

Effective and efficient cooperative use of limited resources, whether financial, societal, or natural, is essential to
achieve the goals of this General Plan and progress toward a sustainable future. Through its implementation,
Midvale can be a place where people live close to where they work and play; where a balanced transportation
network connects mixed-use urban centers; where access to open space and recreational opportunities is
abundant; and where cultural diversity and respect for the natural environment is celebrated. These principles
are integrated into the goals of this General Plan.




Photo Source: (Clockwise starting at top-left) sltrib.com, metrolinktrains.com, midvalecity.org, midvalearts.com

6
OUR VISION
Midvale is a diverse community of vibrant, distinct neighborhoods located in the center
of the Salt Lake Valley and connected to the region by a network of transportation
systems. Our residents, innovative businesses and forward-thinking leaders work
together to ensure a high quality of life for all.


          Land Use: Midvale honors our rich heritage while embracing the future. Providing and
          encouraging safe, walkable, and bikeable neighborhoods connected to each other as well as
          thriving activity centers, schools, parks, churches, and the Jordan River Parkway continue to
          provide the basis for land use decisions.


          Residential Development and Housing: Midvale provides a variety of diverse, high
          quality housing stock that incorporates a range of housing forms and densities that appeal to
          new and existing residents at different income levels and life stages while retaining the character
          and form of established neighborhoods.


          Commercial and Economic Development: Midvale attracts a skilled and vibrant
          workforce by supporting new economic opportunities and by capitalizing on the redevelopment
          of target areas and the City’s gateways. Midvale also supports local businesses by creating
          neighborhood commercial areas.


          Transportation and Mobility: Midvale facilitates a livable community by ensuring a safe,
          inter-connected, multi-modal internal transportation system, and by facilitating multi-modal
          connections to neighboring communities and the region.



          Public Facilities, Services, and Amenities: Midvale ensures a healthy and safe
          community by promoting and providing a variety of community services and amenities for all
          residents, businesses, and stakeholders.



          Parks, Recreation, and Open Space: Midvale continues to provide and improve parks,
          recreation, active transportation routes, and open space facilities as important assets of an active
          community. Midvale is also an important recreation and active transportation destination along
          the Jordan River Parkway.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                 7
2                                                OUR FOUNDATION




Photo Source: strangeandunexplained.weebly.com




CITY DEVELOPMENT and PLANNING HISTORY
Midvale was originally an agricultural community on the east and a mining and milling community on the west,
with both communities depending on each other for sustenance, protection, social interaction, and commerce.
The Union Fort area of Midvale began as a center of agriculture with a settlement along Little Cottonwood Creek
in 1849. By 1853 and the beginning of the Walker War, Brigham Young ordered Utah communities to build
fortifications for defense against hostile Indians. Union Fort was built on 10 acres of land with twelve-foot-high
and six-foot-thick walls. The enclosed settlement included 23 homes, a school (also the church), an amusement
hall, and had a population of 273. Union Fort, remnants of which can still be found today, was never attacked and
eventually the settlers moved back to their farms.

The Main Street area of Midvale began as a center of milling and industry. Pioneer families arrived in 1851 to
start the settlement, which blossomed in the 1870s as a result of mining in Bingham Canyon and the coming of
the railroad. The area was then known as Bingham Junction, and was an important midpoint along the rail line
between the Little Cottonwood Canyon and Bingham Canyon mining districts. Bingham Junction was the middle
of the valley -- in Midvale. Along with the ore mills and railroad came the hotels, churches, boarding houses,
saloons, schools, amusement halls, and the people that made Midvale’s Main Street a center of the community.
Both the Main Street and Union Fort areas of Midvale retain reminders of a shared history that is valued today.
As the City moves into the 21st Century, the early settlers, their structures, and the patterns they left on the
landscape form a heritage with traditions that can serve the community well into the future.



8
When the Union Fort area (now called Fort Union), the Main Street area, and everything in between merged in
1998, Midvale doubled in size to almost six square miles. The merger blended several strong neighborhoods,
a vital commercial district in the Shops at Fort Union, a variety of other strong commercial and industrial areas,
and a historic town center. Midvale now encompasses 3,068 acres extending from the Jordan River on the west
to modern Fort Union on the east, and from I-215 on the north to approximately 8600 South on the south.
Midvale has made great strides to clean up two superfund sites located on the western border of the City. The
first site, Bingham Junction Project Area, is located in the northwest corner of the city and encompasses roughly
390 acres. It is bounded by the Midvale boundary on the north, 700 West/Holden Street on the east, 7800 South
on the south and the Jordan River on the west. On August 10, 2004, the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City
Board of Directors adopted the Bingham Junction Project Area.

The Bingham Junction Project Area consists             Historic image of the Midvale Slag Smelters
primarily of the Midvale Slag Superfund Site.
In 1991 the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) placed the property on the National
Priorities List, the Agency’s list of top priority
Superfund sites. By 2007 the completion of
major cleanup activities on the site ultimately
removed the property from the National
Priorities List. The industrial property had been
abandoned for over 20 years and lacked the
basic infrastructure of roads and sidewalks as
well as water, sewer and storm drain service.
The Bingham Junction Project Area was created
to provide tax increment financing assistance.
Remediation of the site was completed in
2006 and the Bingham Junction area has been
steadily developed since then to provide large
                                                       Photo Source: epa.gov/mivale-sf-success
scale office buildings and housing.

The second site, the Jordan Bluffs Project Area, is bound by 7800 South on the north, Holden Street and Main
Street on the east, the Midvale City boundary on the south and the Jordan River on the west, and encompasses
268 acres on the City’s west side. The Jordan Bluffs Project Area consists primarily of the Sharon Steel Superfund
Site. In 1991 the site was officially listed on the EPA National Priorities List. The EPA conducted cleanup operations
on the site throughout the 1990’s which resulted in capping the tailings piles with a flexible membrane liner. The
property has been vacant for over 25 years and will require additional fill material and infrastructure costs for
redevelopment. The EPA has conducted several five-year reviews of the site’s remedy to ensure that the remedies
put in place protect public health and the environment, and function as intended by site decision documents.
The most recent review concluded that response actions at the site are in accordance with the remedy selected
by EPA and that the remedy continues to be protective of human health and the environment.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                         9
MIDVALE AREA PLANS
Midvale has prepared and participated in the preparation of a number
of general and special purpose plans. This General Plan serves as the
umbrella plan for all City functions and services, and is informed by the
plans listed below. These plans provide additional recommendations
and direction for particular areas of focus.

2003 MIDVALE GENERAL PLAN
In 2000, Midvale began the new century with a fresh General Plan
to guide its future. The General Plan was updated in 2003 with basic
and current demographic data. The 2003 General Plan provides
little direction for the transportation and housing elements, and is
used primarily when referring to the land use element for rezone
requests. This 2016 General Plan updates and replaces the 2003
Midvale General Plan by building on, updating, and supplementing
the policies and objectives of the 2003 Plan.

2003 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC PLAN
                                                                             Photo Source: yelp.com/biz/midvale-main-street-
                                                                             theatre
Also in 2003, Midvale prepared the Economic Development Strategic
Plan to develop strategies for expanding and stabilizing the economic base of the community. The Economic
Development Strategic Plan expands on the 2003 General Plan to identify strategies and guidelines to retain and
strengthen existing businesses and employment and attract new employment opportunities. The 2003 Midvale
Economic Development Strategic Plan identifies nine strategic goals and recommended implementation policies
as follows:

        Goal 1: Create a positive image of Midvale - There are several strategies that will be used to make
        this happen. A permanent staff position needs to be created and a professional ad agency hired to help
        promote a positive image of the City. A consistent, strong, positive message should be used across a
        range of media types in order to establish positive name recognition. City officials will be more pro-active
        in encouraging positive news stories concerning Midvale City in the local media.

        Goal 2: Expand the number and type of businesses in the City - Midvale should exploit the opportunities
        created by TRAX, the light rail system. There are several sites at key locations with regards to the light
        rail that can be redeveloped. Also, Class-A offices will be expanded on the West Side where they are
        currently unavailable. The City needs to create a permanent staff position to coordinate the resources of
        the Economic Development Corporation of Utah and to act as an economic recruiter.

        Goal 3: Help existing businesses succeed and expand - Midvale will actively promote the development
        of CERCLA and other redevelopment sites that will allow for expansion. An effort will also be put forth to
        inform existing businesses (large and small) that Midvale wants them to stay in the City. Associated with
        this, Midvale will demonstrate long range plans for business growth.

        Goal 4: Be known as a place where people matter and people come first - Midvale can capitalize
        on its varied ethnicity, one of the more diverse populations in Salt Lake County. The City’s festivals will
        increase their marketing and capitalize on Midvale’s rich unique history.




10
       Goal 5: Expand housing opportunities and allow for more choices in place and type of residence
       - The image of Midvale’s west side housing will be revamped. Midvale’s walkable and pedestrian-
       friendly neighborhoods will be emphasized and enhanced including access to schools and services. The
       redevelopment of the Superfund sites will allow for the full range of housing types that will serve the
       needs of singles, couples, small and large families, and the elderly.

       Goal 6: Become a city known for its breadth and quality of educational opportunities - Strategies
       to accomplish this include emphasizing accelerated learning and bilingual education. Schools, programs,
       and teachers will be recognized for their successes and efforts. Resources will be expanded to include
       post-secondary and technical education. An effort will also be made to locate a college campus in Midvale.

       Goal 7: Create, maintain and strengthen stable neighborhoods - Midvale will assist neighborhoods
       by providing gathering places such as small parks, and redesigning streetscapes to be more inviting.
       Construction of a large park and recreation center will also be considered.

       Goal 8: Offer quality, efficient and good value municipal services - The City will continue to expand
       its “How can I help?” attitude within the corporate culture. The City will also promote long-term, quality
       employees and encourage citizen participation in improving municipal services. The marketing message
       developed by the ad agency will be incorporated into day-to-day interactions of all City departments.

       Goal 9: Increase the amount of tourism in Midvale - The City will explore possible attractions that
       could be developed at Bingham Junction, a Superfund site. Midvale also has a “historic” downtown center
       that will be developed to enhance the image of Midvale’s “west side.” Midvale’s downtown area is a
       thriving ethnic area that could serve as a basis for expanding ethnic markets, restaurants, shops, etc.
       There is a virtually untapped source of tourism development relating to the ski industry. The City will use
       the idea of, “Stay here, ski everywhere,” as a way of attracting larger numbers of Utah’s winter visitors.

The goals of the 2003 Economic Development Strategic Plan cross boundaries of the elements identified in this
General Plan, and are addressed in several elements in the Our Plan chapter. Many of the goals of the Economic
Development Strategic Plan have either been accomplished or are in the process of being implemented. The
essence of these goals are refined and carried forward in the Commercial and Economic Development goals of
this General Plan. Overall, the 2003 Economic Development Strategic Plan and this 2016 General Plan should be
read together as complementary documents and statements of policy for Midvale’s future.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                     11
2015 – 2040 REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN
The Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2015 – 2040 (RTP) has been developed to enhance the ability of
our Region’s transportation networks to meet the anticipated travel demand projected for the next 25 years. The
2015 – 2040 RTP provides programmed capacity improvements and specific recommendations for highway and
transit facilities, pedestrian and bicycle paths, park and ride lots, and airport and freight services for the Salt Lake
and Davis County Urbanized Areas. Based on the adopted regional land use and transportation vision, known
as the Wasatch Choice For 2040 Vision (2040 Vision), the 2015 – 2040 RTP was developed in accordance with
federal guidelines, is financially constrained, meets state requirements for air quality conformity, is scheduled to
be updated every four years, and reflects a continuous effort by regional planners and engineers to identify and
successfully meet existing and expected growth in travel demand throughout the Wasatch Front Region through
the year 2040. Due to the centralized location of Midvale City, at the crossroads of I215 & I15, with three (3)
light rail stops and several regionally significant transportation corridors, regional transportation is an important
aspect of how the City functions. Therefore, the City must continue its active participation in plan updates to
ensure current and future needs are addressed and met. Priority projects include:

     •   Improve capacity at 7200 South & I15 interchange
     •   Improve capacity of 7200 South westbound
     •   Improve State Street capacity and improvements from 8000 South to Sandy border
     •   Extend Bingham Junction Boulevard south of Center Street
     •   Improve transit options along 7200 South to Cottonwood Canyons

The total cost for these updates is estimated at $60 million, which is a significant amount for a relatively small
area. It is important to work with UDOT to make progress and keep these projects as priorities.


2010 LIFE ON STATE STUDY

A collaborative effort of Wasatch Front Regional Council, Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), Utah
Transit Authority (UTA), Salt Lake County, and others, the stated purpose of the Life on State study was to “…
establish a shared vision for the future of Salt Lake Valley’s central, historic corridor” along the 17 miles from the
State Capitol to 12300 South. The study document reports,

“The State Street Vision aims to:

     •   Create a beautiful place in the heart of the State Street cities that is a source of civic pride
     •   Help unite communities to the east and west of State Street
     •   Enhance the ability of the State Street corridor to move people
     •   Reduce the need for people in the region to travel long distances
     •   Encourage better utilization of urban land through infill and reuse
     •   Encourage new homes and businesses where they can take advantage of existing infrastructure,
         reducing the need for new infrastructure investments elsewhere
     •   Encourage green, sustainable development on State Street
     •   Help the State Street cities provide mobility options for people of all ages and abilities
     •   Improve community health by creating a walkable and bikeable environment
     •   Provide housing choices for Utah’s changing population”

State Street in Midvale extends from 6790 South to approximately 8600 South, with major cross streets at
7200 South, 7500 South, Center Street (7720 South) and Wasatch Street (8000 South). The Life on State study
identified a number of goals and principles, some of which are relevant and useful for the Midvale segment of
State Street. Among them are the objectives of increasing residential density on and near State Street to support
redevelopment of underutilized commercial properties.


12
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND TRENDS
Using the best available data from Midvale City, Salt Lake County, the US Census Bureau, State of Utah
data sets, and other sources, the planning team researched and synthesized information into an existing
conditions snapshot. This snapshot provides not only an overview of baseline conditions and future
projections, but defines how those conditions influenced the development of goals and opportunities for
the General Plan. It also defines current issues and needs of the community.



Land Use
Midvale encompasses approximately 3,746 acres. Residential land use forms the largest use of land in
Midvale as shown below in Table 1. Approximately 44% of the total acreage of the City is a mix of single
family and multifamily residential land uses. Midvale is largely built-out, with only approximately 8.5% of
its land area still vacant. The bulk of the vacant land in Midvale is located in the Jordan Bluffs area in the
southwest corner of the City.

Land use and zoning are distinct characterizations. Land use describes the activities that take place on a
parcel of property. Land use may describe the structures located on the property that support the uses,
but some land uses, such as agricultural use or open space, may take place without structures. Zoning is
the regulatory framework that specifies the types and intensities of uses that are allowable on a parcel of
property. Zoning also establishes development standards that control the placement, size and other features
of structures and improvements. Zoning is distinct from land use in that zoning entitles the landowner
to occupy and develop the land under the standards established by the zone district regulations. Ideally,
existing land uses in a city are consistent with the zoning districts in which they are located, but that is
not always the case. A disparity between a current use and current zoning could be reconciled by either a
change in the use to conform to the zoning, or a re-zoning to conform to the existing use.

The Midvale Zoning Map (Map 1) identifies the City’s zoning districts which control the land uses that, under
current ordinances, are permitted or conditional uses in each zoning district. The Existing Land Use Map
(Map 2) shows the locations of general categories of current land uses in Midvale. There are fewer land use
categories than zoning districts because the land use categories are broader and more general than the
specific zoning districts.
Table 1. Current Midvale City Land Uses
                                                                         Utilities, Canals,      Churches
                                 Total         Percent of    Number of         Other               2%
                                 Acreage       Total Area    Parcels             1%
 Churches                           56.54           1.51%        43                     Vacant
                                                                                          8%      Commercial           Government
 Commercial                        469.83          12.54%       553
                                                                                                     13%                   4%
 Government                        138.51           3.70%       138
 Industrial                        194.18           5.18%       217       Streets                                          Industrial
                                                                           17%                                                5%
 Multi Family                      484.10          12.92%       2715
 Parks                             113.56           3.03%        52
 Schools                           113.09           3.02%        10                                         Multi Family
                                                                                                               13%
 Single Family                     1160.16         30.97%       5507
 Streets                           650.09          17.35%       398
                                                                              Single Family
 Vacant                            327.53           8.74%       190
                                                                                  31%
 Utilities, Canals, Other           38.41           1.02%        53                                                    Parks
                                                                                                             Schools    3%
 Total                             3746.01         100.00%      9899
                                                                                                               3%
Source: Midvale City, Gateway Mapping Inc., January 2016

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                                       13
The City’s 2013 population estimate was approximately 34,000 persons. Midvale’s projected average annual
growth rate (AAGR) is 1.8%, one of the highest in Salt Lake County. Midvale City’s population is projected to
increase by approximately 13,243 residents by the year 2030. Midvale is surrounded by a number of other
cities, including Murray, West Jordan, Cottonwood Heights, and Sandy City. Since Midvale is landlocked,
future growth and development will take place within its city limits.

According to the Envision Utah study “Wasatch Choices 2040”, the Wasatch Front area is expected to add a
population comparable to that of Midvale City, or about 34,000 people, every year. That amounts to a near
doubling of the population of the Wasatch Front planning area by 2050 from 2.9 million to 5.4 million. As
Midvale looks forward, the City needs to decide how it wants to participate in this growth. The anticipated
future growth offers opportunities for Midvale to achieve many of its goals. A primary challenge of this
General Plan is to establish policies to manage growth in a way that protects the character of the City
and enhances the quality of life for current and future residents and business owners. Midvale plans to
accommodate an increase in population with relatively minor adjustments to current zoning in order to
support the community’s values and maintain stable neighborhoods.




14
Map 1: Midvale Zoning Map




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 725 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MEYERS L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6480 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GREENFIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WIN C HESTER ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MALSTROM LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAMES POI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAVIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    520 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AV E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NTE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GENE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BETTY
                                                                                                                                        6400 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N                                                                           FAYELLE AV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y              LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JA                                                 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HICKOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                  790 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                     840 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BIR
                                                                                                                                                                           890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  130 W
                                                                                                                                                           940 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VANTAN                                                                                                                                                                                          C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6570 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A CT                                                                                                                                                                                HFIELD LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               670 W
          WILLOW




                                                                          1190 W
                                                                                                                                                                   6440 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JEFFERSON ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TWIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALFRED WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NIE
          RUN DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDGES LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          380
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CT L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH 67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACOMA RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                                               1040 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67
                                                                                                                                                990 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6715 S




                                                                                                                 1090 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6600 S




                                                                                              1140 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONDOS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10
          LAZ                                                                6460 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BONNEVILLE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70 W
             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6645 S                      6640 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PERRINE DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6720 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   95 W
                   RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  565 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6740 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Railroads
                     V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENCHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VET DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               700 W
                     ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LISA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOURDEAUX DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RI
           SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¦




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             950 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAE CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6770 S                                                 LARCHWOOD DR
                        DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                DD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-15
                  LE                                                                                                         6500 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LESTER AVE                                                                                                        6790 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAJOR ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O
                                      F DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LI
                             BL
                                    UF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Freeway




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VOYAGER PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6795 S                                                                                                                                                                                                       TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORMANDY WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  500 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6825 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6830 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6815 S                                                                                                                              DO R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BIRCHBROOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CREEKC O V E WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COTTONWOOD ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6850 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANGIE CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Major Roads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRENOBLE DR
                                                        TRIUMPH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      U N TRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6856 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      345 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LENORA                                                                                                                                                                                6890 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E N C H AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             400 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6870 S                                                                                                                                                                   OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASHBROOK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             455 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JOE CV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         900 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 595 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WELLW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                125 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          725 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLUMTREE LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                         K DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ramps
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6910 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
                                                             LN




                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                       AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           775 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                            I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RENA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEBRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                                          V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            800 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C IR




                                                                                                                                        ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COB B L ESTONE                                 6895 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          825 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6940 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                                                                         W                                                                                                          6960 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INGLENOOK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LN
                    V I EW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        855
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LN




                                                                                                                                                           IV
                                                                                                                                             AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COBB LEST O NE DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INGLENOOK CV
                                                                                                                                                  K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAKE




                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E SSEX COUR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     85 E
                                                                                                                                                      CT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R DR                                                                                                                                                                                    ES                                                                                                           K CTR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N PAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Local Roads




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HIGH TECH DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  160 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6990 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  430 E
            OVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6980 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAND RU                                                                                                                                                                                         TW                                                                                                                                                                    IO
                         AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOLLOW CV
                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RC
                         W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DR                                                 MA D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COURT CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEREK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7010 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E RCE PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ESSEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ISO N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THATC                                                      MEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HE
                                                                                                      7000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R                                                     DO W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ONT WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CARLSON AVE                                                                                                                                               KITTRIDGE DR                                                                                 WAY                                                                 LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOWNIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trax Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            65 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           600 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          300 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G
          7055 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T                                  AB L                              WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7060 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G ABL                 ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RK   CENTR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TERRE LL CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GLOVER LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O           LD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VILL                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    260 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEPPERIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/8 Mile from Station
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G ER LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           995
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CO M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LV D
          1115 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          230 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COTTONWOOD SQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FORT UNION B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7100 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VILLA PLACE DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        540 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7160 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/4 Mile from Station




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH UNIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       210 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        350 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              150 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7200 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Major River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WHITECREST WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         APPLE HONEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CRE TI O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WHIMPY W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 580 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NICOLETTI DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       380 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   180 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Streams




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          245 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72                                                                                                                             7240 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     525 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¨
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¦I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HALELANI DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MARLA WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MILLENNIUM ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MILNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NIN T H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RUSTY DR
          730




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         145 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zoning Overlay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1105
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7320 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CYP RE
              5S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RAMANEE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAROL WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E RFOR D WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COX LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SPRIN G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CV
                                           RECLA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A OUT PL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAUNA CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAYNE DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7350 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PA
                                                        MATION FACILITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      The Junction at Midvale




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LN
                                           R
             R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARIE DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
             X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T
                                      AT E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I VY WOODS
          ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ON
          FO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EIGHTH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C REST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CALIFORNIA DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7390 S                                                                                                                                                                                                           PINES CT                                                                                                                                                                                                            ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U NI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AL
                                  SV W
           DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIO GRANDE ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CRE EK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7420 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CARMEL DR                                                                                                                                                                                                               E WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SPRUCE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LBO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7430 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7220 South Overlay (7200 O)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           645 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAPLE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PINE ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELM ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEVENTH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7440 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHADDS FOR                                                                   CANYON R I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LAUNA ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARIZONA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7460 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONNIE DR                                                                                                                         D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7450




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MILL CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     95 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         410 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HAVEN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          270 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GREEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REST HI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIXTH AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jordan Bluffs Overlay (JBO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIXTH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7500 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HIL                                                                                   R IDGE HIL L LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIESTA D R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7500 S                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BL I S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C I WOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REGENT PARK LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RA AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIFTH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOISC                                                                                                     CASA NEG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LINCOLN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State Street Overlay (SSO)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NC A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARKWAY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REGENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CASA NEGRA CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLA AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7485 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOURTH AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GR                                     HILL CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BIRCH ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIN BLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FORBUSH AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                HOLDEN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CASA VERDE S T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PEAR LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MECHAM LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEPOT ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REGENT                                                     SANDY WOODS                                                                                                       7570 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THIRD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GRANDE CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Riverwalk Overlay (RWO)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARK CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42 5 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SP



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARK ST                                                                                                                                                                                                            7615 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ORCHARD                                                         Y DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SECOND AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SA NDY                                                                                                     SPRINGS                                                                             LYND                                                                                                                                                                                7625 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VISTA CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M IC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOCUST ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7635 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QUAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAR K CIR SANDY PA RK DR                                                                                       CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               520 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zoning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STAGG ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CHAPEL ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CENTER S Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SKYLARK LN                                            C IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C HAD ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ABAMA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1095 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIRST AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7660 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7670 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CASA ROJA ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  375 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B RIAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7700 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               900 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1130 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7710 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Single Family (SF-1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1040 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SANDY H EIGHTS DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7720 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIONWOOD DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7725 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SPRINGS DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1070 E


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1100 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1200 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          415 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHAD HE                                                                                                                                                   RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HANSEN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IGHT
                                                                                                                                    CENTER ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                      COOPER ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CELESTE DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIT                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Single Family (SF-2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEVIN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S LN
                                                                                                                                                                       LE PAGE ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OLYM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GRANT ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CIR                                              ALTA VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1000 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORFOLK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PINE WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEQUOIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TREE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCHOOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA N D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIDDLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Agricultural Overlay (SF1-AO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIDVALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALLEN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MILLERBERG DR
                                                                                                                                                                                    HOLDEN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GARDEN VIEW DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7855 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HARVEL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STICK LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAFT ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LENNOX ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PONDEROSA DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SAKO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  280 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Duplex Overlay (SF1-DO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OAK ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROMONTORY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRADY LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MANZANO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          450 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           965 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OLYMPUS ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PINEWOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PIONEER ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7905 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEROSA WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CLIFF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C IT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MOUNTAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHOWCASE LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      860 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEYNON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 930 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TENNYSO N C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VIEW DR                                                                                                                                      TENNYSON AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALLEN CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7945 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Residential Multi-Family (RM-12)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TWELVE PINES DR



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INT PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CL E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CYPRESS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PINE CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ALPINE FIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                  WASATCH ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CEDAR TERRACE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WASATCH ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Residential Multi-Family (RM-25)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7985 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  830 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OLD BARN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEREGRINE PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NI GHTHAWK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8020 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FERN CI R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            420 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O LD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TAPP LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TIERNEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAPTOR CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ANGEL                                                            8 0 45 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATION ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mixed Use (MU)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           615 E
          8050 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DAIRY RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VAN BUREN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CORNELL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FERN DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T       Y CIR                                                                                                               8080 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          650 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIG PINE DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COLUMBIA DR                                                                                                                          LANDING W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MILKY WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      State Street (SSC)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               535 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EBROOK DR                                                                                     8120 S                                                                            8100 S                                                                                                                                                                                 MAJES TY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HARVARD DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8125 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ILLS DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WILSON ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CIR                                                                                                                                                                NWO O D H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROOSEVELT ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DARIN ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8135 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1060 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SMART LN                                                                                                                                  TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MONROE ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARION CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VALLEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IVY DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              805 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WOOD ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AD AMS ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Transit Oriented Dev (TOD)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LASALLE DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T                                                                     8180 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ANGEL S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARION VILLAGE RD                                                                                                                           8175 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         740 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1300 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      700 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HEATHER ST                              GARDENIA DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VIEW CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      865 E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MARION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AK E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jordan Bluffs (JB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8220 S                                                     8200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KIRKWOOD WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MARQUETTE DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                                                  8230 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RI S ON CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    150 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8245 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1225 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOOVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C KSON ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8260 S                                                  8240 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             560 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GERONA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FALLBROOK W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Historical Commercial (HC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIFFANY TOWN DR                                                                                                                                                                             ST MARYS DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WILLIAMSBURG                                                       8280 S                                                                                                                                                                AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARK CIR 8270 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JULIE ANNA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8300 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JULIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BRADLEY WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8285 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8310




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANNA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROMAINE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8325 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8320 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bingham Junction (BJ)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7 45 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1050 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARLO AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8360 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8355 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STONEFIELD RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8375 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        83
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRINCETON DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PARK HURST LN                                                                                                   80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GR A MBLING WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Regional Commercial (RC)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COLENE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ART WAY                                                                                                                                                            8400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LACROIX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HA N DC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1275 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUCHNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8425 S                                                                                                                                                                                    LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EDGEFIELD RD                                                                                                                             DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARS WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Clean Industrial (CI)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STBRIDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SANDY OAKS DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  APO LLO WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STONEFLY DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9 35 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          880 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AY
                                   84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOLAR WAY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 115 E
                                      50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8475 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S   ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JUDY
                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OLD                                                            8490 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1330 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FAIROAKS WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8480 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     960 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SA NDY CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      City Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 400 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FAYEWAY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SETTLEMEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JOHNSONWAY DR                                                                                                                                                                                            LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LYNWOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIONEER AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AMANDA LYNN LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CIR NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HARRISON ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHLOE WAY                                                                  RORY LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             440 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8555 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              240 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         920 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LINDELL A V E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DY P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8575 S

                                         8600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8580 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8600 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KWY
                                               1070 W




                                                                                                            MI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRIT CIR
                                                                                                              LLRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8640 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1240 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  220 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AGE WAYN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                                   TERRA POINTE WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUENA VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VILL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     550 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HILLS DR                                                      GAYLE N E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DURANT AVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                   CE BE N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L A DIAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WAY
                     N
                 GLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KD



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAULA DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8680 S                                                                                                                                           V ILLAGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1325 E
                                               BUCKSKIN LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OR WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              60 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DR
                     Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AV
          SPRING S WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W AY                                                                     S                                                                                                                                                              HILLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8680
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LORI CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 910 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MONROE ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               90 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DP
                                                                                                                      D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOLA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1185 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CIR




           MEADOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8720 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                          RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SPAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              620 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZONA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8685 S
                                                                                                      DUANE CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHA
           GLEN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        190 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAFWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O AKWOOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  250 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PEBBLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARK CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8710 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V                                                                                                                                                                      8725 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TAN D R
             MUSTANG CIR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HILLS CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1350 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8760 S
                     CORRAL CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      360 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COTTAGE A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L                                                                        R




                                                                           Midvale City Zoning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ®                                        0          0.125   0.25              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Miles
Map 2: Existing Land Use




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6990 S




                                                                                    700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l vd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           nio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r   tU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Fo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r   kA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ve




                           70
                              0
                             0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              700 E
                                                             Jordan River Blvd

                                                                                                                                                                                7200 S                                                                          7200 S




                                                                                   Main St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Halelani Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Unio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    n Ave




                                                                                                                              St
                                                                                                                            lp a
                                                                                                                           Cata
                                                                                                                      §
                                                                                                                      ¨
                                                                                                                      ¦
                                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            700 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     y
                                                                                                                                   Sixth Ave




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
                                                                                                                                                                              7500 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                yH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Greenwood Ave




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Hu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1000 E
                                                                                                                                    Jefferson St
                                                                                 Main St
                                                        Hold en St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           io
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r   kA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1000 E
                                                                                                          Center St


                                               7725 S
                                  Le Page St




                                                                                                                                                                                                               7800 S                                                                                                                                                          7800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Midvale City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Property Classification


                                                                                                                                                                                                    State St
                                                                                             Wasatch St
                                                                                                                                                                                                               8000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 June 2016
                                                                                                                                                     Jackson St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Legend



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    City Boundary          100%        3746.01 acres

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Commercial             12.54% 469.83 acres (553 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Industrial             5.18%     194.18 acres (217 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Multi Family           12.92% 484.10 acres (2715 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Single Family          30.97% 1160.16 acres (5507 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Churches               1.51%     56.54 acres (43 parcels)
                                                                                                                                                   Princeton Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Schools                3.02%     113.09 acres (10 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Government             3.70%     138.51 acres (118 parcels)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  State St
                                                                                                                                                                  Monroe St




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Parks                  3.03%     113.56 acres (52 parcels)
                                                                             700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Streets/Railroads      17.35% 650.09 acres (398 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vacant                 8.74% 327.53 acres (190 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Utilities, Canals, Other 1.02% 38.41 Acres (53 parcels)

                                                                                                                                                                                         8600 S
Housing and Demographics
Demographics
Midvale’s population remained fairly stable throughout the last decade    Table 2: Salt Lake Valley Median Age
after more than doubling in size from 1990 to 2000, a majority of which    City                            Median
can be attributed to the 1998 annexation of the Fort Union area which
                                                                           Salt Lake County                  31.2
doubled the land area of Midvale. Based on 2013 data, the average
                                                                           Herriman                          20.5
household size in Midvale is 2.56, which is the third smallest in Salt
Lake County. The Salt Lake County average is 3.01. While the share         Bluffdale                         26.7
of households with children under 18 decreased from 38% in 1990 to         Riverton                          28.3
33% in 2010, large families remained slightly more than a tenth of all     West Jordan                       28.7
households in the City. Single-parent households with children under
                                                                           West Valley City                  29.7
18 declined from 14% in 1990 to below 11% in 2010.
                                                                           South Jordan City                 29,8

The median age of Midvale residents is 31.2 years. This is in line with    South Salt Lake                   29.9
the Salt Lake County average of 31.2. Midvale does have a relatively       Draper                            30.6
high proportion of Millennial aged residents (born between 1982 -          Midvale                           31.2
1990), at 20.8% compared to Salt Lake City at 20%, Murray at 9%, Sandy
                                                                           Salt Lake City                    31.4
at 14%, and South Jordan at 15%. This may be a result of a greater
number of attractive multifamily units, corporate job locations, and       Taylorsville                      31.9
also convenient regional transit access.                                   Sandy                             34.0
                                                                           Cottonwood Heights                35.2
Household incomes in Midvale remain in the low to middle income
                                                                           Murray                            35.7
bracket for household incomes in Salt Lake County, but Midvale has
a slightly higher per capita income ($22,904) compared to West Valley      Holladay                          38.3

City, Herriman, West Jordan, and Taylorsville. Higher per capita income   Source: American Community Survey 2013,
                                                                          Applied Geographic Solutions 04/2013, TIGER
means that residents have more disposable income and greater ability      Geography
to spend money on consumables and leisure.

Midvale has an average rate of education attainment comparable to Salt Lake County as a whole, with a
rate of 23.1% reporting a bachelor’s degree or higher and 34.1% reporting an associate’s degree or some
college. Salt Lake County’s averages are nearly identical to Midvale. The southern and eastern portions of
the City report higher percentages for bachelor’s degrees or higher, while the northeast and western areas
of the City are slightly lower. As Bingham Junction‘s development has progressed, census data is not readily
available on demographics for this area, but given higher than average rental costs, one would expect an
upward trend in education attainment and median income for the western portion of the City.

Housing
Maintaining a diversified housing stock is integral to any city’s sustainability. Housing choices must be
available for all life stages, income levels, and lifestyles. As a suburb of Salt Lake City, Midvale has many
smaller, affordable homes in traditional neighborhoods as well as a significant number of apartments,
condominiums, town homes, 2-, 3-, and 4-plex structures. Furthermore, Midvale has a variety of larger
homes on large lots, and is therefore attractive to all income levels and ages throughout all stages of life.

Although Midvale has a variety of housing types, a challenge the City is seeing in some of the older, single-
family residential houses is that they do not adequately accommodate today’s lifestyles. An example is that
some homes were built with single car garages with no way to expand the garage area because of the required
side yard setback. The inability to create a more usable and practical garage space for today’s lifestyles is
forcing some homeowners to consider moving from neighborhoods they would otherwise live. This specific

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                           17
issue was addressed through a zoning ordinance text       Figure 1: Midvale Housing Types
amendment. Midvale desires to continue to provide
                                                                Mobile home or
opportunities for homeowners to continue living in
                                                                 other type of
the older neighborhoods by providing mechanisms                 housing, 0.90%
for appropriate home remodeling to occur to
accommodate today’s lifestyles and needs, while
protecting the character of the neighborhood.
                                                                           Multi-Unit (10+),              Single
Homes built prior to 1979 represent nearly 50% of                              27.90%                 Family/Duplex,
Midvale’s housing stock, while those built between                                                       45.40%
1980 and 1999 represent 28% of the City’s dwellings
(Table 3). Only 22% of the City’s housing has been
built since 2000. The mix of current housing types           Multi-Unit
in Midvale is shown in Figure 1. Single family homes        (5-9), 8.00%
and duplexes are considered low-density in this Plan,
                                                                 Multi-Units (3 or
and are therefore lumped together in the calculation,               4), 6.90%                         Condos/Townho
totaling 45.5%.                                                                                        mes, 10.80%
                                                            Source: American Community Survey, 2013

Home ownership in Midvale increased from 41% in
1990 to 50% in 2014. Renter-occupied units saw a large decrease from 1990 to              Table 3: Year Built
2000, but have remained consistent since 2001. Compared to its peer suburbs,               2010 or later        3.5%
Midvale has slightly more units that are rented than owned. Rental units in                2000 to 2009         18.6%
Midvale also have a very low 7.2% vacancy rate. This is likely due to the type
                                                                                           1980 to 1999         28.5%
and size of the available housing stock, and the accessibility to a variety of
transportation and transit options. While rental properties are often associated           1960 to 1979         30.4%
with poor property maintenance, less community involvement and higher                      1940 to 1959         13.3%
crime rates, such broad generalizations should be avoided, as the general trend
                                                                                           1939 or earlier      5.5%
associated with such properties in Midvale has been that of fairly stable, safe,
                                                                                          Source: American Community
and well involved residents.                                                              Survey, 2014


Compared to some of its neighboring cities, Midvale housing has historically remained more affordable. In
2013, the median housing value was $197,986 . This is 17% lower than the $236,600 median for the Salt Lake
metro area. The average rental rate for one-bedroom apartments in Midvale in 2013 was $742 , near the
median for Salt Lake County as a whole. Interestingly, home values do not vary greatly between the east and
west sides of the City.




Photo Source: all images from Zillow.com


18
Affordable Housing and Diversity

DETERMINING AFFORDABILITY
The Area Median Income (AMI) and average household size data for Salt Lake County as reported by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) are used to determine moderate income thresholds for
an average household. In 2015, the Salt Lake County AMI was $72,200 and the average household size was 3.01
(rounded to 3.0 for analysis). For Salt Lake County, moderate income is calculated as 70% of the AMI, or $50,540
annual gross income. HUD’s standard for housing affordability is that housing expenses are no higher than 30
percent of gross monthly income for a moderate income family. For the purposes of calculating affordability,
housing expenses include mortgage/rent payments, utilities, and insurance.

The determination of housing affordability at the moderate income threshold of $50,540 is calculated in this
way:

       • $50,540 annual income / 12 months = $4211.66 gross monthly income
       • $4211.66 monthly income with 30 percent allocated for housing = $1,263.50 housing expense per
         month
       • $1,263.50 housing expense minus an assumed average $300 in non-mortgage or rental expenses
         (e.g. utilities, taxes, insurance) = $963.50.

Therefore, a moderate-income family of three in Salt Lake County can afford a monthly rent or mortgage payment
of approximately $963 per month. For property rental, this translates simply to a maximum rental payment of
$963. The analysis of affordability of home ownership is a bit more complex. To calculate an affordable house
purchase price for the same family of three, the following calculations would apply:

       • Expendable mortgage income (not including taxes and insurance) = $963/month.
       • Current average interest rate of 4.5% on a 30-year loan.
       • Assuming a 10% down payment.

At the assumed interest rate, this family could afford a $210,000 home with a $21,000 down payment and a
mortgage of approximately $190,000. Affordability can change with a change in interest rates from current
historic lows, and homes will become less affordable unless area incomes (AMI) rise.

Photo Source: Zillow.com




     MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                              19
ANALYSIS OF AFFORDABILITY IN MIDVALE1                                             Table 5: Single Family Home Values
Midvale has 11,792 housing units according to the 2013                             Market Price of Single           Number          Percent
Applied Graphic Solutions. Not included in that number                             Family Homes (at-                   of
is the addition of 2,353 residential units at Bingham                              tached and detached)              Homes
Junction and approximately 118 infill units, for a total of                        Less than $50,000                     11           0.2%
14,263 housing units and a population of approximately
                                                                                   $50,000 - $100,000                    61           1.0%
34,000. Table 6 shows Midvale’s distribution of single-
family homes by value, according to 2015 parcel data                               $100,000 - $150,000                  664          10.4%
from the Salt Lake County’s Assessor’s Office. This parcel                         $150,000 - $200,000                 2511          39.3%
data indicates that 3,247 (approximately 51%) of Midvale’s                         $200,000 - $250,000                 2309          36.2%
single-family homes (attached and detached) are valued
                                                                                   $250,000 - $300,000                  555           8.7%
at or below $200,000 (the current approximate moderate-
                                                                                   $300,000 - $350,000                  179           2.8%
income affordability threshold in Salt Lake County). For
owner-occupied housing, this means that Midvale easily                             $350,000 - $400,000                   61           1.0%
meets the HUD fair share standard that 19% of homes in                             $400,000 - $450,000                   20           0.1%
the area should be affordable.                                                     $450,000 - $500,000                    8           0.1%
                                                                More than $500,000                    6 0.1%
Designated moderate-income units are located in several
                                                               Source: 2015 SLCo Assessor Parcel Data
housing authority sites and complexes, such as Canyon
Crossing which provides 180 housing units at rents
60% or less of the area’s median incomes, and nine units devoted to physically disabled adults. Midshore
Manor and the Florentine Villas also have designated moderate-income units among market-rate units.
Additionally, Midvale also has several senior housing units, including Tuscany Villas (76 units) and Founders
Point (97 units).

While owner-occupied housing meets HUD fair share standards for moderate–income housing, rental units
in Midvale are less affordable than owner occupied units. The average monthly rent in Midvale in 2013 was
$742, slightly below the Salt Lake County average of $783. According to HUD calculations, 11% of rental
units were affordable for low income families (between 30 and 50% of AMI) and 35% of rental units were
affordable for moderate income families (between 50 and 80% of AMI).

Interestingly, home values do not vary greatly between the east and west sides of State Street, but a greater
number of low income residents live west of State Street. The majority of the tax credit apartment units in
Midvale are also located west of State Street. At present, Midvale is achieving and actively accommodating a
reasonable to high opportunity for moderate and low income households to live in the City. Even so, Midvale
should also be cautiously optimistic about the future. With new developments, a proper balance of housing
affordability should continue to be encouraged.




1 For more information on housing affordability in Midvale, refer to the 2013 Midvale: Fair Housing Equity Assessment prepared by the Bureau of
Economic and Business Research, David Eccles School of Business, University of Utah. Accessed from: http://ucdp.utah.edu/reports/HUD_Portal/Plac-
es/Salt_Lake_County/Cities/Midvale_April13_Draft.pdf


20
Commercial and Economic Development
Utah is forecasted to add some 2.5 million residents by 2050, with approximately 80 percent of them
predicted to reside along the Wasatch Front. The demand for housing is going to put pressure on all cities,
and their public policy decisions will affect how they participate in this coming growth. One of the goals
of this General Plan update is to address the future of the City, and describe how Midvale plans to take
advantage of population growth to achieve its long-term goals.

Midvale sits in the middle of the valley and has numerous economic advantages by virtue of the variety
of transportation modes available and ready access to regional transportation networks. Within the
approximately six square miles of its geographic boundary, Midvale City relies on a healthy stream of sales
taxes for revenue to support governmental operations. Hence, economic geography and land use play a
very important role in supporting the City’s economy. Goal five of the 2003 Economic Development Strategic
Plan, to support continued economic growth for Midvale City, is to expand housing opportunities to allow
for more choices in place and type of residence. A successful economy for Midvale depends on having
enough residents near the economic activity centers to support local businesses. Higher value businesses
will need more nearby residents to succeed. Additional residential units and higher residential densities in
appropriate areas are necessary to support the kind of economic growth and sustainability the City seeks.

Seeking and capturing the highest and best use for every parcel is needed to energize revenue generation.
The addition of new critical mass and an upward shift in the demographic profile all feed into future demand,
economic strength, and energy for the city. It also keeps Midvale competitive with other surrounding cities
that are all growing, adding new residents, and competing for existing retail users, sales taxes, and seeking
new or better retail users.


Artist rendering of Overstock.com building and TRAX                                       Photo Source: SLTrib.com




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                    21
Chapter 3 of this General Plan identifies nine Opportunity Areas where future growth is anticipated. These
nine areas provide opportunities for mixes of uses to attract new active residents, businesses, and retail.
The residential component in some of these areas is very important to the success of the businesses. As an
example, in 2009 the City participated in the Life on State Study, led by the Wasatch Front Regional Council.
One of the key points of that plan was to understand the market demand for retail along the State Street
corridor as supported by the trade area’s households. The study identifies that in the area of State Street
from 7200 South to 8000 South there is roughly 73,000 square feet of excess commercial space that the
immediate trade area cannot support. This excess space leads to low lease rates and marginal commercial
uses, translating to lower property and sales tax collection for the City. Focusing commercial development
at specified nodes and providing opportunities for higher density residential projects in-between will create
the critical mass and provide the energy and synergy necessary to strengthen the commercial development.
All play an important role in the financial sustainability of the City, specifically in retail retention, economic
growth, health and revenues. As land is a city’s most lasting asset, maximizing the value of that asset will
have long term effects on the City’s financial viability and lessen the need to increase property taxes for
public services and infrastructure.

This new development needs to reflect the market forces and create a sense of place, through pedestrian
scale and access to transit options. This will enhance the community and further stabilize the economic base
for the City while integrating within or along the existing neighborhoods.

The cooperative goal of higher density residential in conjunction with a retail market analysis to identify
strategic retail opportunities and assist in providing branding opportunities within the market place is the
objective. It can help redefine and strengthen existing trade areas, as well as identify new trade areas, while
supporting the interrelated goals of economic development by strengthening tourism, neighborhoods, and
the community, and projecting a positive image of Midvale.

In calculating the demand, one can establish the types of retail activity and evaluate the competition to provide
insight into trends of sales-per-square foot. That not only plays a very important role into the economic base
of Midvale, but also into the overall health of the community. The capturing, or realizing the total potential
of Midvale City requires strategic land use decisions that provide opportunities towards increasing the sales
activity within the City and strengthening the economic base of the community. These related economic
development goals tie into land use decisions that reflect that objective of the General Plan. By improving a
trade area with future customers, the sales within the existing square footage of commercial space available
should increase, hence revenues for the City. In certain areas, specifically along portions of State Street it
is assumed that the oversupply of retail space and increased competition may be decreasing the sales per
square foot. Therefore, one of the primary goals is to reverse that trend.




22
Economic Development Strategic Plan

Midvale adopted an Economic Development Strategic Plan in August, 2003 in part to meet the required
elements of a “Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) as defined by the United States
Economic Development Agency (USEDA). The USEDA uses the information developed in a CEDS to evaluate
certain federal grant applications for USEDA funding of local government projects. The 2003 Economic
Development Strategic Plan identified 9 interrelated goals to support continued economic growth for the
City of Midvale. These are listed in the City Development and Planning History discussion above.

An Action Plan for accomplishing the nine goals is described in the 2003 Plan. Many of the implementation
steps described in the Action Plan have either been accomplished or remain as ongoing efforts. While all of
the goals of the 2003 Plan relate to and support economic development, this General Plan is organized to
focus on land use, housing, and economic development in separate sections of the Plan chapters.


Redevelopment Project Areas

The 2003 Midvale Economic Development Strategic Plan identified a Project Area in the western part of the
City that included two Superfund sites with a combined size of 629 acres. The two sites were subsequently
remediated, facilitating the creation of the RDA Bingham Junction Project Area and Jordan Bluffs Project
Area on August 10, 2004. The primary purposes of the project areas are to address the extraordinary costs
imposed on the properties as former Superfund sites, and to finance the construction of infrastructure to
prepare the areas for development activities. The infrastructure development is complete in the Bingham
Junction Project Area, and redevelopment of a mix of residential and commercial land uses is underway.
Remediation of the Jordan Bluffs Project Area has been completed, but construction of infrastructure has
not yet begun.

General Fund Revenues and Expenditures

Midvale City relies on a variety of sources of general fund revenue. Figure 2 below shows how Midvale’s
general funds are spent. Public safety accounts for 40% of the City’s annual budget, with another 26% going
to streets, parks, public buildings and general administration. As shown in Figure 3 below, approximately
65% of the City’s 2016 general fund revenue came from various taxes. Forty percent of the general fund
revenue comes from collection of sales taxes and 7% from property, motor vehicle and other taxes. Midvale
City relies heavily on sales tax revenue to support its operations, which allows the City to rely less heavily on
property taxes.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                    23
Sales Tax

Midvale has several main commercial locations; the largest area is the Shops at Fort Union. State Street,
7200 South, and now Bingham Junction all have significant commercial investment as well.

Midvale commissioned a January 2016 Sales Tax Analysis study by Lewis, Young, Robertson & Burningham
1
 (LYRB) to provide an analysis of the economic sustainability of Midvale City in relation to its sales tax revenues.
The LYRB report is attached to this General Plan as Appendix A. Included in the report is an overview of retail
sales in the City, a sales gap (“leakage”) and capture analysis, and a buying power analysis. The sales tax
leakage and capture analysis identifies economic development opportunities for a community by evaluating
the total purchases made by residents inside and outside the community (hence, the term ‘leakage” for
purchases residents make outside the community and “capture” for purchases made in Midvale by non-city
residents). This information assists the City in attracting businesses to fill service gaps, preparing economic
development strategies to keep retail sales in the City, and determining overall economic development
plans. The report also provides an overall update of the City’s sales tax revenue.

Since 2010, Midvale’s gross retail sales have grown at an annual rate of seven percent. This annual average
growth rate (AAGR) exceeds all other comparable cities by 0.5 percent. However, the City’s gross sale per
capita has grown at a slower rate than other comparable cities. At a four percent growth rate per capita, the
City’s AAGR is surpassed by over half of the comparable cities. This suggests that while gross taxable sales
are increasing, they may not be keeping pace with population growth. The City’s greatest retail strength
based on total taxable sales is food and beverage, followed by general merchandise, sporting goods, and
building materials. Health and personal retail represents the lowest percent of total retail sales for Midvale.




Figure 2: General Fund Expenditures Fiscal Year 2016                      Figure 3: General Fund Revenues Fiscal Year 2016




                                                                                                               Source: Midvale City




1 Lewis, Young, Robertson & Burningham, Sales Tax Analysis, Midvale City Utah, 2016


24
SALES TAX LEAKAGE
The LYRB analysis identifies in which sales categories Midvale City is experiencing sales leakage to other
areas, and which categories could potentially be developed. Overall, Midvale is capturing 140% of all sales
categories for all retail sales that occur within the City based on the income adjusted State spending per capita
of $12,457 (income adjusted based on Midvale’s median per capita income). Based on the 2014 information
for major North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes as collected by the Utah State Tax
Commission, Midvale experienced a decline of 13% in its overall capture rate from 2010 to 2014. The decline
may be attributed to a disproportionate population change compared with the per capita income change.
From 2010-2014, Midvale’s population experienced an AAGR of 2.90% while the per capita income AAGR
from 2010-2014 was only 1.76%.

Additionally, a comparison of the decline in capture rates to total market share, or the percent of total
taxable sales within a community when compared to surrounding communities, illustrates that Midvale has
increased its market share by 0.5 percent from 2010. While 2013 showed an increase in capture rates when
compared to the previous year, it declined again in 2014 which may suggest that while the City’s total taxable
sales have increased since 2010 and there is a net capture of sales within the community, population growth
may be outpacing growth in retail sales. Thus an effort to offer additional retail opportunities may increase
the per capita retail sales in Midvale.

Based on the leakage described above, Midvale is capturing the majority of its sales tax revenue potential.
However, the City could collect an additional $200,981 in tax revenue if the City could capture 100 percent
of retail sales that currently are being “leaked” to other communities.

The sales tax leakage analysis suggests that there may be opportunities for development to capture more
sales tax revenue in the following retail sales sectors:

•      Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers
•      General Merchandise Stores
•      Non-Store Retailers
•      Arts, Entertainment, & Recreation




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                    25
Transportation and Mobility
Regional Influence and Connections

Midvale is strategically located in the Salt Lake Valley and is highly accessible via state and interstate
highways, light rail, bus, and the Jordan River Parkway. Two major highways—I-15 running north-south and
I-215 running east-west—provide excellent vehicular connectivity by bisecting the City. Internally, Midvale
is regionally connected via light rail and bus. UTA has three light rail (TRAX) stops within the City and two
heavy rail (Frontrunner) stops just outside of the City limits in neighboring Murray and South Jordan cities.
Multiple bus routes connect light rail stations with the rest of Midvale and to adjacent cities. The Jordan
River Parkway traverses the western border of the City, providing north-south multimodal connections and
a strong recreational asset.

Vehicular travel in Midvale is largely influenced by regional traffic on the City’s freeways and arterial streets.
Because of the role Midvale plays in regional commuter traffic, regional growth will severely affect vehicle
travel through the City. Two areas anticipated to experience significant growth in traffic are the 7200 South
connection to I-15 and the Union Park Avenue connection to I-215 in the Fort Union area; some of this
congestion is expected to be relieved through a road-widening project planned for 7200 South to the west
of I-15. Reliance on major freeways and arterials to internally move people through Midvale also poses
challenges to smaller streets. “Bypass” traffic on local connector streets occurs when the major throughways
become congested.

East-west vehicular mobility along major corridors linking to I-15 and other facilities will continue to be
one of Midvale’s biggest transportation issues. Traffic projections (Map 3) forecast continued congestion,
particularly along 7200 South on either side of the I-15 intersection. The major regional transportation
facilities through the City also act as barriers to other forms of transportation, especially local trips.

Midvale’s connections to regional transportation systems are important to the City’s residents, businesses and
employees. When making improvements to these connections it is important to consider all transportation
modes, Midvale residents’ work and recreation destinations, daily travel from the region to destinations
within Midvale; and incorporating the plans of adjacent cities.

Working with regional and state transportation agencies needs to be a continuous effort of Midvale’s
transportation planning. This work must include communicating and balancing the City’s visions for major
facilities with those of other agencies; working with agencies to manage the effects of regional-scale traffic;
and, in some cases, working towards the transfer of jurisdiction over State highways.

Internal City Connectivity

Overall network connectivity is important to a healthy transportation system. There are a number of
opportunities within Midvale for improved connectivity including the extension of Bingham Junction Boulevard
through Jordan Bluffs, connections between Main Street and Bingham Junction, and the extension of Wasatch
Street to Bingham Junction Boulevard. Overall network compatibility is also an important aspect of Midvale’s
transportation planning. As space for transportation is limited, planning must not only identify opportunities
for merging compatible transportation modes, but also ensure complementary uses of different streets and
transportation routes. For example, it is important to explore the opportunities for parallel facilities, such as
7200 South and Center Street, to serve complementary purposes.




26
Map 3: Future Vehicle Network
Map 4: Existing Vehicle Network
Map 5: Existing and Planned Transit Network
Although connection to regional highway and rail transportation systems is an asset for the residents and
businesses of Midvale, much of the regional transportation infrastructure that passes through Midvale is
north-south oriented and poses a barrier to east-west mobility within the City. There are opportunities
for better east-west connectivity by ensuring that new developments have good connections to existing
developed areas. Effective communication and coordination with UDOT and UTA will be important to
maintain and improve internal circulation as highway and rail improvements are planned.

Midvale’s vehicle network consists of a hierarchy of classes – primary, secondary, and local streets. The
primary street network—along with freeway access to I-15 and I-215,—provides regional access, while the
secondary and local streets provide local connectivity. State routes within Midvale include State Street, 7200
South (west of State Street), and 900 East.

Public Transit

Midvale is currently home to three UTA TRAX stations as well as five bus routes and two flex shuttles (Map
5). The 7200 South and Center Street TRAX stations are both along the Blue Line which connects downtown
Salt Lake City to Draper. The Bingham Junction station is along the Red Line which connects the University
of Utah to South Jordan. These stations provide the City’s residents, employees, and visitors with fast and
direct access to the region’s activity centers such as downtown Salt Lake City, the University of Utah, and Salt
Lake City International Airport. Furthermore, each station is located in an area of Midvale with significant
development and redevelopment potential. The Bingham Junction station is surrounded by new housing
and employment uses. The Center Street and 7200 South Stations are adjacent to vacant and underutilized
parcels, which provide the opportunity for mixed-use and transit-oriented development that would offer a
variety of new housing and commercial opportunities in Midvale.

However, despite the excellent transit service the TRAX stations provide, other aspects of transit in Midvale
can be improved, beginning with improving local connections to the TRAX stations. Pedestrian barriers such
as properties, fences, and major streets prevent the stations’ surrounding areas from being fully accessible
to transit users. In addition, few transit services connect to the TRAX stations. The UTA flex bus routes serve
the areas located immediately adjacent to the routes, but more robust services are necessary to provide
complementary east-west connections to the other transit opportunities. Some planned BRT/Enhanced bus
projects could provide this need. In addition to existing bus routes and stops, UTA is planning two bus rapid
transit (BRT) routes for State Street and 7200 South. Center Street has the opportunity to take on a larger
transit role because it traverses more walkable areas than other east-west corridors and it passes under
I-15 without the congestion related to an interchange. In particular it may be worth exploring whether the
planned 7200 South BRT route can run along Center Street through some of Midvale. The Center Street and
7200 South Stations are adjacent to vacant and underutilized parcels of land that also offer transit-oriented
development opportunities.




Photo Source: (from left) Logan Simpson, utah.subwaynut.com, rideuta.com

30
Active Transportation and Livability

Neighborhood livability is closely linked to transportation. Midvale neighborhoods are more livable when
they have active transportation (pedestrian and bicycle) links to amenities such as parks, churches, schools,
and shopping areas that are compatible with vehicle traffic. It is important to ensure a connected network to
mitigate effects of traffic and to provide pedestrian-scale street design. Opportunity areas such as Bingham
Junction, Jordan Bluffs, and the areas around existing TRAX stations have opportunities to broaden their
transportation networks by incorporating pedestrian, bicycling, and transit alternatives.

Strengthening active transportation networks is a critical step toward increasing the use of existing
transportation assets while expanding transportation options for Midvale’s residents and employees. This
may be accomplished by strengthening pedestrian access to light rail stations and incorporating BRT into
the City’s transit system.

BICYCLE TRAVEL
Though Midvale’s current formal bicycle infrastructure is minimal (Map 6), opportunities for enhancing
existing networks are available; several of the City’s existing streets are currently compatible with cycling,
opportunities for bicycle-supportive neighborhoods are present, and a stretch of the Jordan River Parkway
provides a strong north-south link for recreation and commuting purposes. In addition, existing plans for
bicycle improvements from the Utah Collaborative Active Transportation Study (UCATS) and the Wasatch
Front Regional Council Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) focus on bicycle improvements in Midvale.
Currently, the biggest challenges for bicycle transportation in Midvale are the physical barriers that transect
the City at several locations. These barriers, such as I-15 and State Street, do not provide usable corridors
and are difficult to cross conveniently and safely.

Meeting the challenges of improving bicycle mobility in Midvale means overcoming physical barriers and
adding new bicycle facilities. Bicycle routes will likely need to be contained within existing street rights-of-
way. Consequently, the City will need to be strategic about where and how it creates future bicycle facilities.
Midvale can utilize the TRAX stations to improve overall bicycle connection to the greater region for its
residents, employees and visitors. Additionally, the Jordan River Parkway is a great active transportation
and recreational asset along the western edge of the City. The Parkway and TRAX stations are well within
bicycling distance from most points in the City, but access, visibility, safety, and convenience for bicyclists
should be improved within these “bike-sheds.”

Midvale has many small-scale east-west connector streets that link many of its parks, schools, churches, and
commercial centers while avoiding freeway interchanges and other high-trafficked areas. These connectors
are safer routes for cyclists and include Center Street, 7500 South, and 8000 South. However, strong north-
south cycling corridors are more limited.




Source: railstotrails.org

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                   31
Map 6: Existing and Planned Bike Network
Map 7: Existing and Planned Pedestrian Network
                                                                                                                                                                                I-2
                                                                                                                                                                                  215




  EXISTING &
  PLANNED
  PEDESTRIAN




                                                                               700 W
                                                                      RIVER




                                                                                                               COTTONWOOD ST
  NETWORK
                                                                     GATE DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       900 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     300 E
                                            JO
  Pedestrian                                  RD
                                                AN                                                                                53%




                                                                                                                                                                                                700 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1300 E 1
  destination                                      RIV
                                                               ER
  cluster                                                           BL
                                                                      VD
                                                                                                              7200 S                                                                FORT UNION BLVD
                School




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E
                                                     ON BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AV
                Park/Open space                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TH U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K
                Other civic use                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                Commercial                                                                                                                                                                                                                N    AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NP
                                                UNCTIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UN
                                             M JU


                Potential




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CREEK RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                            HILLC
                                       BINGHAM




                Pedestrian                                                                                                                                                                                        RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            HIGH ST
                Priority Route                                                                          SIXTH AVE                                                                                                 DR
                                                                                                                                        7500 S                  GREENWOOD AVE                      0    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                750




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                             HW
                                                                                                              JEFFERSON ST
                                                                       ST

                TRAX station




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                     51%




                                                                                                                                                                                                          SK
                                                                                          I-15
                                                                         EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                        HU
                                                                    HOLD




                                                                                                                                                 STATE ST
                                                                              MAIN S T


                Pedestrian
                Barrier                                                                  CENTER ST
                Existing Cross
                Barrier Connection                                                                                                                                                           7800 S




                                                                                                                     PIONEER ST
                Potential Cross                                                                                                    78%
                Barrier Connection




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1000 E
                Walk Shed                                                                 WASATCH ST                                                                   8000 S
                1/2 mile potential




    51%         Actual Walk Shed




                                                                                                                                                                                                700 E
                Percentage of
                potential 1/2 mile
                Walk Shed reached




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 °
                by current Walk
                Shed
                                                                                                                                                                                           00                0.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .25                0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miiles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                             SAND




                                                                                                                                                                                           Miles
                                                                              700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                            M iid
                                                                                                                                                                                                dvva  eG
                                                                                                                                                                                                   alle Ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                         enne
                                                                                                                                                                                                            erra    Plla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       an
                                                                                                                                                                                                               all PPlan n
                                                                                                 Y PK




                                                                                                                                                                                            Midvale     General
                                                                                                 WY




                                                                                                                                                            8680 S


                                                                                                                                                                     280 E
PEDESTRIAN TRAVEL
Midvale has the potential to be a much more walkable city. The City’s walkable historic downtown,
neighborhoods with parks, schools and churches, and the TRAX stations are the assets the City can build
upon for a more connected pedestrian network. The core to understanding Midvale’s current and future
pedestrian network is understanding the City’s key pedestrian destinations – places where Midvale residents,
employees, and visitors want to walk to and within. Midvale’s mixed commercial, civic, recreational, and
educational land uses are popular pedestrian destinations; these areas include the City’s major commercial
clusters – Main Street, Bingham Junction, and Fort Union, as well as several clusters of parks and schools.

As the area’s TRAX stations provide an important non-vehicular access route to the region for employment,
school, entertainment, recreation, and other purposes, pedestrian access immediately surrounding the
stations needs to be improved. Currently, the connectivity of the walk-sheds1 around all three stations varies
considerably. The Center Street station is accessed by a relatively well-connected network (Map 7) – 78% of
its potential ½ mile walk-shed is accessible by foot. However, only 53% of the 7200 South station and 51% of
the Bingham Junction station ½ mile walk sheds are pedestrian accessible. Efforts should focus on making
key pedestrian connections that expand these walk sheds.

Currently, pedestrians traveling between the TRAX stations and Midvale’s other pedestrian destinations
are faced with significant barriers, the majority of which are primarily at-grade and grade-separated roads
such as I-15, State Street and 7200 South. Most of these barriers, apart from 7200 South, run north-south.
Though the existing barriers are not likely to go away, improving the pedestrian environment along them
and providing more crossing opportunities could help abate their magnitude.

It is also difficult to walk within most of Midvale’s shopping centers and commercial clusters. Existing
commercial centers, such as the development along 7200 South and the Fort Union area, is largely designed
to accommodate vehicles. These centers are at different stages in their life cycles and some have the
potential to be redeveloped in the near future. Redevelopment of these areas will provide opportunities to
improve walkability, especially near TRAX stations. Piecemeal and ad-hoc development in some areas of the
City has also led to gaps in the sidewalk network that should be addressed when considering transportation
improvements.

The area of Midvale east of I-15 contains a large number of pedestrian destinations barricaded by high-
volume roadways with fast-moving traffic. Main Street is perhaps the single greatest pedestrian asset in
Midvale. Currently it is isolated from much of the rest of the City by the I-15 and rail barriers. The pedestrian
connection between Main Street and Bingham Junction is important. While Main Street has a very walkable
urban form, Bingham Junction has become one of the City’s major economic engines, which could reinvigorate
Main Street. Better pedestrian and urban design connection between them would help this reinvigoration.
A more direct connection could be made from the Main Street area to the Bingham Junction TRAX station.




1 Most of us only feel comfortable walking a certain distance from our homes (usually no further than ½ mile) -- what planners call our “walkshed.”


34
Public Facilities, Services, and Amenities
Midvale’s public facilities, services, and amenities are a point of pride for the community. Public services
and facilities play an important role in adding to the quality of life in a city. Public facilities are focused on
the maintenance and enhancement of infrastructure, such as water, sewer, and drainage, as well as public
structures, services and programs. Excellence in public works services is a hallmark of the City along with a
clear commitment to customer service. Public art and cultural enrichment opportunities are a part of the
City’s commitment to public facilities. Public Facilities, Services and Amenities refer to existing and planned
systems/locations with emphasis on public safety, water and sewer service, public buildings, and Utopia.

FIRE PROTECTION
Midvale City is served by the Unified Fire Authority (UFA) as of 2011, with two fire stations, Station #125 (7683
South Holden Street) and Station #126 (607 East 7200 South). These stations provide fire and ambulance
service in Midvale as well as support for other jurisdictions through cooperative agreements. The staff attends
neighborhood events and provides Community Emergency Response Team training at the emergency
response center in Station #126. With the construction of the new City Hall at 7505 South Holden Street, the
City sold the former City Hall site at 655 West Center Street to the UFA for the construction of a new Station
#125. The City retained ownership of the current Station #125 and will sell it to a commercial user once
vacated. The UFA is managed by a Board of Directors made up of the elected officials from member cities.

PUBLIC SAFETY/LAW ENFORCEMENT
Similar to fire protection, Midvale City joined and is served by the Unified Police Department (UPD) since
2011. The UPD is managed by a Board of Directors made up of the elected officials from the member
cities. The main UPD station is located at 7912 South 700 West. Aside from their law enforcement roles,
police officers attend community picnics, have a presence in the schools, and provide safe road crossing for
school children. Midvale City also has access to pooled services available through UPD such as Crime Scene
Investigation (CSI), Gang Investigation, a SWAT team, K-9 service, and other services offered by UPD.




Midvale City Night Out Against Crime




Photo Source: Midvale City

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                     35
MIDVALE CITY HALL
The newly constructed Midvale City Hall is located at 7505 Holden Street, between Main Street and Holden
Street. It is the administrative and legislative center of the City, and houses the Mayor’s office, justice courts,
meeting rooms for the City Council and Planning Commission, the Midvale City Development Services
Department, and several other departments and offices that serve the residents of Midvale City. City Hall’s
location on Main Street, as well as the co-location of other existing and proposed civic and governmental
facilities and services, creates a strong civic center in support of the historic downtown.

MIDVALE CITY PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
The Midvale City Public Works Department provides construction and maintenance services for the City.
Major responsibilities include streets, parks, utilities, solid waste, buildings, fleet operations and cemeteries.

The Streets Division maintains City roads and coordinates work with County and State Agencies. They take
care of all roadways, sidewalks, curb and gutters, traffic signals, street signs, roadway paint stripping and
street lighting including snow plowing, street sweeping and pothole patching.

The Utilities Division maintains all City water, sewer and storm drainage facilities. They operate and maintain
all city wells and pumps, water storage reservoirs, transmission and distribution waterlines, fire hydrants,
valves and water meters. They clean and televise all sanitary sewer lines, manholes, lift stations, storm
drainage pipes, inlet grates, boxes and detention basins.

The Parks Division has responsibility for City parks and cemetery facilities. They mow, fertilize and water
lawns, trim shrubs and trees, plant flowers, clean restrooms, remove graffiti, maintain the main park bowery
and amphitheater, sell grave sites, maintain cemetery records, dig graves and coordinate funeral activities.
There are also dozens of roadway park-strips and landscaping areas that are maintained as part of the parks
system.
Public Works personnel are responsible for the collection of solid waste and all recycling activities within
the City. The City provides collection services for the entire community through a contractor on a weekly
basis. This service includes curb side collection of solid waste as well as separate recycling. Midvale City also
provides bulk and green waste pickup in April and October of each year, which is separated so that green
waste (tree limbs and timber products only) can be recycled.
                                                     Figure 4: General Fund Expenditures Fiscal Year 2016
In addition, all City buildings and facilities are
operated and maintained by Public Works.
This includes repairs, janitorial services,
snow removal, landscaping, and contract
maintenance. The City fleet of vehicles and
equipment is operated and maintained by
Public Works as well. This involves acquisition,
servicing, repairs, registration and annual
inspections, fueling, washing and accident
repair.

As seen in Figure 4, Public Works expenditures
account for 10% or $1,650,900 in the overall
2016 City Budget.

WATER SERVICE
Water is supplied to Midvale City by four
physically separate distribution systems. The
largest of the four networks serves water to the

36
western portion of the City and includes 4 wells, 2 water storage tanks totaling 6.5 million gallons, and three
interagency connections, one to Sandy City and two with Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD).
This system has been owned and operated by Midvale City since the City’s founding in 1909.

The second largest network of the City’s water system serves the Union area of Midvale. Previously, this area
was serviced and managed by Sandy City. During 2009 control and ownership of this system was transferred
to Midvale City. The Union area network is comprised of two pressure zones which receive water via inter-
agency connections with Sandy City, and two wells.

The third network serving Midvale City is located in the eastern portion of the Union Area and is owned
and operated by JVWCD. This area is referred to as the JVWCD Retail Area. The fourth and smallest water
system serves a limited area along the eastern edge of the City and is operated by Salt Lake City Public Utility
Department.

Discussions are currently underway between Midvale City and JVWCD for the City to take over the control and
operation of the JVWCD retail system. Also, the City plans on making connections to the JVWCD distribution
network to provide water for the Union Area system, and closing the connections with Sandy City.

SEWER SERVICE
Sewer service is provided by Midvale City, Sandy Suburban District, Cottonwood Improvement District, and
the Midvalley Improvement District.

REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
The Redevelopment Agency of Midvale City (RDA) is a public agency that is governed by state regulations
but operates as a City department to assist in carrying out the General Plan and vision of the City. The
Mayor and City Council serve as the Chief Administrative Officer and Board of Directors, respectively. The
purpose of the RDA is to attract private investment into economically depressed areas, revitalize older
neighborhoods through rehabilitation and new development, and build housing for all income levels. The
RDA currently manages two project areas; Bingham Junction and Jordan Bluffs. Within these project areas
the RDA can participate in commercial and residential development as well as public infrastructure. The
RDA also provides opportunities to integrate public art into private developments or public spaces through
the Bingham Junction Public Art Program. This program is managed by the RDA with participation by a
design board and annual funding allocations.

UTOPIA
UTOPIA is an interlocal-governmental agency formed by 17 original Utah cities in 2002. The network was
built with the objective of providing infrastructure that gives each home and business the opportunity to
have reasonably priced access to an ultra-high-speed network offering a variety of private sector services
including; internet, voice, television, video-on-demand, home security and other innovative services.

Access is key. Through Midvale’s involvement in UTOPIA, residents, tenants, and companies within the City
can reap the benefits of technology via the open infrastructure of fiber optics while capturing value in the
innovative competition offered in the open service provider system. This provides operational advantages
and potential savings in voice, data, and video transfers of information. This infrastructure allows true
broadband access to the information economy while establishing the technology platform for the needs of
successful companies, schools and residents

Today it is maintained and operated by the agency. It collects user fees to operate and pay off bonds used to
develop the network to date. It serves many large employers within the City, as well as numerous households
that capture the advantages of broadband access and serves as a distinct technological advantage for
economic development.

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                   37
Parks, Recreation, and Open Space
As growth and development pressures mount, publicly accessible open spaces are becoming increasingly
important to communities. In developed and essentially “built-out” communities like Midvale City, they are
particularly important because the opportunities for new parks and open spaces are limited. Trails and
paths are essential to the livability of a city, in that they provide both active transportation and recreation
opportunities. Providing efficient motorized and non-motorized transportation links between recreation
opportunities and neighborhoods is also important.

The combined areas of parks, school fields and church open spaces total approximately 192 acres in Midvale,
as shown in Table 9. While included in the total open space acreages, some school fields are not generally
accessible to the public and offer only the visual attributes of open space. There are also approximately
365 acres of vacant/undeveloped land in the City. The largest area is Jordan Bluffs (268 acres), with the
remainder in small parcels interspersed throughout the developed areas of the City.

EXISTING PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES

Parks

Fire Station Park
Fire Station Park located just north of the Fire Station on 7200 South and is approximately 1 acre. The park
includes a pavilion and playground.

Union Park
Union Park is a neighborhood park, owned and managed by Salt Lake County. It includes approximately
16.56 acres and is located at 7360 South 700 East. Facilities include three baseball diamonds, one softball
diamond, four horseshoe pits, a sand volleyball court, large playground structure, covered picnic pavilion,
restrooms and storage, and seating and concession stand associated with the ball diamonds. The remainder
of the area is landscaped and available for passive recreation opportunities.

Midvale City Park
Midvale City Park is a neighborhood park, owned and managed by Midvale City. It includes approximately
19 acres and is located at 455 West 6th Avenue. Facilities include four tennis courts, three football/soccer
fields, playground equipment, pavilion, community building, restrooms, splash pad and an amphitheater.




Photo Source: All Midvale City

38
Bingham Junction Park                                          Table 9: Midvale Park and Open Space Acreage
Bingham Junction Park is a City park located in the                           Open Space                  Acre(s)
northeast corner of the Bingham Junction neighborhood
                                                               Neighborhood Parks
and is adjacent to the Jordan River Parkway. It is 24
acres in area. Facilities and amenities include a lighted              Fire Station Park                      1.0
softball field, playground, picnic pavilions, walking trail,           Union Park                          16.6
wetlands area and basketball courts.                                   Midvale City Park                   19.1
                                                                       Copperview Community Center Park       7.0
The Junction at Midvale
Bounded by 7200 South, 7800 South, 700 West/Holden                     Bingham Junction Park               24.0
Street and the Jordan River, this 214 acre mixed use                   The Junction at Midvale             51.3
development contains 39 acres of linear open space
adjacent to the Jordan River. Facilities in this park space            Total Park Acreage                 119.0
include: internal walkways and trails, tot lots, a dog park,   School Open Space
benches, walkway lighting, public art and two bridges
                                                                       East Midvale Elementary                9.0
connecting this open space to the regional Jordan
River Parkway on the west side of the Jordan River.                    Midvalley Elementary                   7.0
One bridge is located at the west end of the FLSmidth                  Midvale Elementary                     3.0
parking lot, the other approximately at the midpoint of
                                                                       Copperview Elementary                  7.0
The Lofts apartment community. This network of open
space provides pedestrian and recreational access                      Midvale Middle School                  8.0
throughout the entire development as well as to the                    Hillcrest High                      22.5
Bingham Junction Light Rail stop and the surrounding
community.                                                             Jordan Valley Alternative High         8.0

                                                                       Total School Open Space Acreage     64.5
Recreation Facilities                                          Church Open Space (estimated)

                                                                       St. James Episcopal                    2.5
Copperview Community Center
This Salt Lake County owned and managed facility,                    LDS Church Total                   6.3
located at 8446 Harrison Street, provides a variety of               Total Church Open Space Acreage    8.8
recreation and education services to the community.
                                                                     Total Open Space                  192
Recreation facilities and programs include indoor and
outdoor basketball courts, skateboard, weight room,
multipurpose room that is used for gymnastics and
aerobics as well as other activities; adult and youth baseball, basketball (Jr. Jazz), soccer, and volleyball;
and additional youth activities such as gymnastics, T-ball, karate, and hunter safety programs. Many of the
sports activities are programmed and managed by Salt Lake County, and take place at local schools through
agreement with the Canyons School District. After-school programs are offered each day between 4:00 and
6:00 p.m. A day care center is located on-site, which provides transportation to and from school for children
attending elementary school. Recreation programs for persons with disabilities are also provided. Outdoor
programs include basketball, flag football, and baseball; there is also a small playground.

A variety of community services occur at Copperview Community Center, such as Food Bank, HEAT (a utility
assistance program), and a health clinic which are operated by the South County Community Action Program.
Educational classes include English as a second language, and consumer and family education programs.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                       39
Midvale City Senior Center
Salt Lake County Aging Services operates the Midvale Senior
Center located on Main Street adjacent to the City Hall. The
Senior Center offers several health and educational programs
including midday meals served at the Center, Meals-on-Wheels
for home-bound Seniors, blood pressure clinics, tax preparation
assistance, cooking classes, and others. Recreation programs
include ceramics, exercise, billiards, quilting, bingo, cards, evening
dancing, and special parties. The Senior Center serves primarily
those who live close to the facility. However, they have an out-
reach program to attract seniors who are still working to evening
activities, and to interest more seniors in programs and activities.
Transportation to and from the Center is provided for those who
need it.


Existing Trails

The Midvale section of the Jordan River Parkway runs parallel to the Jordan River for approximately 1.5 miles
from the trail head located at 950 West 7800 South to the southwest City boundary at approximately 8530
South 700 West. Trail amenities consist of mile markers, point of interest signs, benches, tables, two bridges
connecting the trail to adjacent open space, and turn-out areas allowing users closer access to the river.

In the spring of 2004, Midvale adopted a Trails Master Plan that identifies future trails opportunities
throughout the City. During the planning process, residents expressed a strong desire to further develop
Midvale’s trail system, specifically along streams and canals and to provide linkages to neighboring cities.
Although the Jordan River Parkway provides a walkable spine on the west side of Midvale, opportunities
exist for trails on the TRAX lines and along the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal.

The adopted Trails Master Plan Map is shown in Map 5. The 2004 Midvale Trails Master Plan will provide the
guidance for expansion and improvement of the Midvale City trails system.



Midvale Section of the Jordan River Parkway




Photo Source: SLTrib.com

40
Map 5: Trails Master Plan Map
Recreation Need Analysis

PARKS
Communities evaluate their level of service in providing parks and open space to their residents, meaning the
demand for parks and open space, by calculating the ratio of acres of parks and open space available to the
community population. The ratio method is relatively simple to compute and can be compared with national
or local park, recreation and open space measurements. The most widely used park land ratios have been
formulated by the National Recreation & Park Association (NRPA) using standards that have been developed
over time by governmental park and recreation departments across the country. The NRPA published a
comprehensive list of ratios in 1985 that have subsequently been updated. The NRPA recommends that a
community park system should offer from 6.3 to 12.1 acres of developed parks per 1,000 population, with a
median of 9.9 acres per 1,000 population.

For purposes of calculating available park and open space acres, Midvale City includes developed parks,
school playing fields, and churches. These open spaces are included because they contribute significantly
to neighborhood access to public space. Table 10 below compares 2014 and projected 2030 Midvale City
population, and the total amount of existing park and open space acres (192 acres), to the NRPA low, mid,
and high guideline ratios. Based on this information, Midvale City has an existing deficit of parklands of
between 20 and 204 acres, and a projected 2030 deficit of 104-365 acres. The 2030 projected deficits assume
that no new park land has been added to the inventory, and that the available parks acreage remains 192
acres.

        Table 10: NRPA Midvale Park Guideline Ratios

                                   Park         NRPA             NRPA            NRPA        Midvale Park
          Year     Population
                                   Acres     6.3ac/1000       9.9ac/1000      12.1ac/1000       Deficit
          2014       31,725        192           200              314             384         20 - 204 acres
          2030       45,000        192           284              446             545        104 - 365 acres




In considering the availability of parks and open lands to Midvale residents, it is important to note that there
are Salt Lake County parks and other recreational facilities in the areas around, but outside the city limits of,
Midvale. Another NRPA standard for parks level of service is that parks should be located within a half-mile
walking distance from each home in the city. Some Midvale neighborhoods would be underserved, based
on the accessibility standard, including the area east of 700 East and north of Fort Union Boulevard, and the
area south of Center Street and west of I-15.

RECREATION FACILITIES AND PROGRAMS
The Copperview Community Center, Midvale Senior Center, Midvale Boys and Girls Club, and the recreation
programs administered by Salt Lake County provide many services to the residents of Midvale. Access to
these facilities is good for residents living in close proximity, but the City’s interior barriers to non-motorized
travel, such as I-15 and the rail lines, limit access. The Copperview Community Center serves the southern
edge of the community to the east of I-15, but it is not readily accessible to residents west of I-15 or to the
east of State Street. During the planning process, residents expressed a desire for more easily accessible
recreation centers and indoor/outdoor swimming pools. Ideally, there would be a Recreation Center located
to the west of Interstate 15 and another to the east of State Street to the north of 7800 South.




42
Whether a swimming pool is located as part of a Recreation Center or separate from it, residents
expressed a desire for a centrally-located outdoor swimming pool in Midvale City. The NRPA
recommended level of service is one swimming pool for each 20,000 residents in a community.

Recreation programs and activity opportunities for all age groups are desired by Midvale residents. The
target-groups most often mentioned for programs and activities were youth (teenagers), children and the
elderly. Activities mentioned include after-school activities; dancing and hang-out places for youth; free
motion (parkour) parks; and sports programs and facilities. Recreation programs can take place in existing
school and/or church facilities, new facilities such as a recreation center, and other public buildings where
space allows. Many of these programs are and should continue to be in partnership with organizations
like Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, Boys and Girls Club, and Midvale Senior Citizen Center. Other
partnerships are possible with local schools, churches, service organizations, and business and interests
groups.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                 43
3                                                                       OUR PLAN




LAND USE
The overall purpose of the Land Use Element of the General Plan is to guide future growth and development,
creating a sustainable citywide development pattern, while maintaining and enhancing the quality of life in
the community of Midvale as a whole. The Land Use Element identifies the current land uses that provide the
framework for the structure, organization and character of the City. Current land uses in Midvale are generally
described in Table 1 Chapter 2. There are fewer land use categories than zoning districts because land use
categories are broader and more general than specific zoning districts. In general, current land uses are consistent
with existing zoning districts. For Midvale, broad changes in current land uses are not anticipated, and the City’s
current zoning and development regulations are, for the most part, aligned with the goals and direction of the
General Plan.

More than 90% of the area of Midvale City has been developed, and the character of the City is defined in
large part by its stable residential neighborhoods. Other areas of the City, such as Bingham Junction and Jordan
Bluffs, are undergoing or have potential for significant new development. Still other areas, while developed,
are anticipated to experience renovation and redevelopment as markets expand and property values increase.
Given the limited availability of vacant land in Midvale, housing and jobs for future population growth will need
to come by changing existing land uses in appropriate areas to higher-density residential and commercial uses.



44
Map 8: Opportunity Areas




Early in the planning process, the planning team identified fifteen distinct Midvale neighborhoods to acknowledge
the City’s variety and diversity. The identification of distinct neighborhoods also facilitated conversations about
present Midvale and the City’s future at a scale that was meaningful to City residents and stakeholders. Maps were
prepared for each neighborhood showing current land uses, public facilities, transportation systems and other
features that establish the character of each neighborhood. The maps also showed areas in each neighborhood
where little change is anticipated in the foreseeable future, and areas where market forces, increased land
values and opportunities for redevelopment of under-utilized land are likely to bring about changes in land uses.
For the purposes of this Land Use Element, areas of little anticipated change in the City have been characterized
as Stability Areas. Areas where changes in land uses are anticipated in the foreseeable future are characterized
as Opportunity Areas. Map 8 shows Stability Areas in base colors and nine Opportunity Areas with plum and
blue shading1.

The planning team sought suggestions and ideas from neighborhood residents and business owners about
attributes of the neighborhoods they would like to preserve and enhance, and the kinds of changes they would
like to see in under-utilized areas. That input was used to develop descriptions of desired future conditions and
land uses in each neighborhood.

Within several of the shaded Opportunity Areas there are relatively stable residential neighborhoods where little
change internal to the neighborhood itself is expected. However, new development along major streets and in
areas of underutilized properties is expected in the future. In these areas, measures to protect and enhance the
livability of stable residential neighborhoods should accompany the anticipated change.
1 The plum and blue colors are for illustrative purposes only.

MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                      45
Future Land Use

For most of the areas of Midvale, the current land uses, current zoning and future land uses are substantially
similar. In Stability Areas the current overall land-use mix is desirable, and preservation of these areas’
character and function is the desired future condition. These areas are nearly fully developed and have
little foreseeable change in the types or intensity of land uses in the future. In Opportunity Areas, minor-
to-major changes in current land uses are likely to occur due to market forces, increasing land values and
opportunities to optimize land uses to take advantage of transit and other public investments. Projects in
Opportunity Areas are anticipated to be at higher levels of density than current land uses and should be
carefully planned and designed to integrate into the fabric of the area and minimize impacts on adjacent
and nearby existing land uses. Future proposed uses in the Opportunity Areas may or may not be consistent
with current zoning, and the desirability of the proposed use and the need for re-zoning should be evaluated
on a case by case basis.


STABILITY AREAS

Most of the land in Midvale is in areas of relative stability where little significant change in either the types
or intensities of land uses is anticipated in the foreseeable future. Stability Areas are characterized primarily
by residential neighborhoods with schools, parks, churches and other public facilities. Many Stability Areas
abut existing commercial areas and Opportunity Areas, and some are within the exterior boundaries of
Opportunity Areas as shown in Map 8.

Goals:
The land use goals for Stability Areas include:

     1.   Support property maintenance and neighborhood stability
     2.   Buffer uses in Stability Areas from more intensive land uses nearby, including adjacent Opportunity
          Areas
     3.   Provide for better pedestrian/bicycle connections through and between neighborhoods
     4.   Provide for access to parks, trails and recreation facilities
     5.   Provide for appropriate transit opportunities
     6.   Provide mechanisms for appropriate home remodeling to occur to accommodate today’s lifestyles
          and needs




46
OPPORTUNITY AREAS

As described above in the Commercial Development and Economic Sustainability section of Chapter 2, Utah
is expected to add another 2.5 million residents by 2050, with the great majority of that growth taking
place on the Wasatch Front. Midvale plans to strategically participate in that growth in order to provide the
community services and amenities businesses and residents desire, and to achieve long-term economic
sustainability. Tax and other revenues derived from commercial activity pay for a significant portion of
the City’s cost of operations. Insufficient sales tax revenue can result in higher property taxes in order to
continue to provide necessary City services.

With only 8.5% of the land area in Midvale vacant, most growth would occur through redevelopment of already
developed areas. The planning process identified nine Opportunity Areas in the City where transportation
and other infrastructure is present, and where higher-value land uses would be beneficial. Figure 1 identifies
the nine Opportunity Areas in Midvale where changes in the types and/or intensities of current land uses are
anticipated. In these areas, denser residential uses, mixed residential and commercial uses and larger, taller
buildings are anticipated to take advantage of the transportation infrastructure and to generate more tax
revenue for the City. The mix of residential and commercial uses is important to provide enough shoppers
and visitors in close proximity to make new businesses viable.

The Opportunity Areas include:

  •   Main Street/Old Town
  •   Bingham Junction
  •   Jordan Bluffs
  •   7200 South East and West Gateways
  •   North State Street
  •   Middle State Street
  •   South State Street
  •   7200 South
  •   Fort Union




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                 47
Main Street

The Main Street area is generally bounded by Eighth Avenue on the north, 8360 South on the south, Holden
Street on the west and Interstate 15 on the east. The residential neighborhoods between First and Seventh
Avenues and between Fern Drive and Gardenia Drive/Wolf Grove Circle are stable and function well. Little
change in land uses is expected in these areas. The City Hall and senior center at the north end of Main
Street and the TRAX stop and mixed use development at Bingham Junction are catalyzing new development
and redevelopment in the area of Main Street, with the adjacent Bingham Junction project bringing new
residents and businesses into the area. Historic Main Street is among the last original main streets in the
Salt Lake Valley. It is attracting new investment as the market demand for mixed retail and residential areas
grows. There exist a number of opportunities for development and redevelopment to revitalize Midvale’s
Main Street and to create a cultural center. Among them are multi-family housing, potential vertical mixed
uses1, public spaces and additional retail, restaurant and small office uses.

Goals:
The future land use goals for the Main Street area of Midvale include:

      1. Preserve and build on the character of Historic Main Street
      2. Preserve and support rehabilitation and improvement of nearby stable residential areas
      3. Enhance the Main Street and Center Street corridors to create a vibrant, walkable town center that
          could become a regional attraction
      4. Diversify the land use mix to develop a compact full-service pedestrian scale neighborhood,
          particularly in the area of Main Street, Center Street, and Holden Street.
      5. Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system
      6. Connect Main Street to surrounding neighborhoods and to Bingham Junction and Jordan Bluffs
          through pedestrian and bicycle pathways and urban design techniques to create a cultural center
      7. Connect Main Street area with Bingham Junction through the extension of Tuscany View Road
      8. Support redevelopment of existing multifamily structures in the area, particularly on Tiffany Town
          Drive and the south end of Ivy Drive, into more functional higher density housing
      9. Support redevelopment of the existing storage units between Allen Street and I-15 in support of the
          adjacent residential neighborhood
      10. Support redevelopment of the City’s western boundary to blend with and enhance future
          redevelopment of the Jordan Bluffs Area
      11. Develop design guidelines for new development and alterations on Main Street



Best Practice
Building Redevelopment: Create economic and regulatory
incentives for redeveloping and repurposing existing buildings
before building new. This helps retain the historic and cultural
character of the community, both in the building itself and in the
setting around existing buildings.
(The Minnesota GreenStep Cities Program, 29 Best Practices)




                                                                                 Image credit of Aaron Leitz Photography
1 Mixed use refers to an area where commercial, office, and residential uses are located together. Mixed use can be vertical, where residential and
office uses are located on stories above ground floor retail uses, or horizontal, where uses are in separate structures but are located close to one
another.


48
Bingham Junction

Bingham Junction is located in the northwest corner of Midvale bordered by the City boundary on the north,
Center Street on the south, the Jordan River on the west and 700 West and Holden Streets on the east.
Bingham Junction is the newest development in Midvale and is characterized by large employers, including
FLSmidth, Savage Industries, Intermountain Healthcare, CHG Healthcare, and Overstock.com, as well as
a mix of housing products. Connectivity to the Bingham Junction area is excellent via 1-15, 7200 South, a
number of UTA bus stops and the Bingham Junction TRAX station. The area also enjoys access to numerous
parks and the Jordan River Parkway.

Goals:
The future land use goals for Bingham Junction include:

      1. Improve pedestrian and bicycle path connectivity to the Main Street and Jordan Bluffs Areas
      2. Support improved pedestrian and urban design connections between the Bingham Junction area
         and Main Street and the Bingham Junction TRAX station. Extend Tuscany View Road to the east to
         cross Holden Street into the Midvale City Civic Center (Main Street area)
      3. Improve roadway connectivity to the east and west
      4. Support intensification of office and commercial development through the redevelopment of
         surface parking by utilizing parking structures and other redevelopment methods

Jordan Bluffs

Jordan Bluffs is the southwest undeveloped area of Midvale bordered by Center Street on the north, the
Jordan River on the south and west and Main and Holden Streets on the east. The entire Jordan Bluffs Area
is an opportunity, in that it is currently vacant with no approved master plan for development. The area
provides a possible opportunity for high quality mixed use office/commercial and residential development.
However, the future development potential will be driven by the environmental condition of the property
and associated costs for redevelopment.

Goals:
The future land use goals for Jordan Bluffs include:

      1. Promote consistency and compatibility with the Bingham Junction project to the north
      2. Provide for connectivity to the Main Street neighborhood, either physically (crosswalks) or by urban
           design
      3. Support redevelopment of the adjacent area to the east to blend and enhance any redevelopment
           of the Jordan Bluffs Area


                                                          Best Practice
                                                          Gathering Spaces: The overall design of new development
                                                          centers should link gathering spaces and open spaces in a
                                                          sequence or network. Squares, greens, and plazas are gathering
                                                          places that may provide visual relief and passive recreation.
                                                          (Salt Lake County Township General Plan: 107)




Image credit of North American Properties (NAP). © 2015


MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                         49
7200 South Gateways

The West Gateway is generally bounded by the City boundary on the north, Ninth Avenue on the south, 700
West on the west and I-15 on the east. The area is bisected by 7200 South. The predominant land use in the
West Gateway Opportunity Area is light industrial, with some small commercial development. The Salt Lake
County Public Works facility is located in the West Gateway. The TRAX red line to Daybreak goes through the
middle of the area from north to southwest with the nearest station at Bingham Junction to the southwest
of the area. The West Gateway Opportunity Area is strategically located, with nearby transit stops and east-
west/north-south freeway connections. The development of the adjacent Bingham Junction Opportunity
Area as an employment and housing center may put some pressure on the area to redevelop.

The East Gateway area lies to the east of I-15 and is generally bounded by the City boundary on the
north, Millennium Street on the south, and High Tech Drive/180 West on the east. The East Gateway Area
is characterized by a mix of commercial and light industrial uses. The East Gateway Opportunity Area is
strategically located and well served with I-15 access and transit stops. The TRAX blue line to Draper goes
through the middle of the East Gateway Opportunity Area from north to southwest, with the 7200 South
TRAX station located at approximately 180 West 7200 South.

West Gateway Goals:
Future land use goals for the West Gateway Opportunity Area include:

     1. Improve design and overall aesthetics of the commercial and light industrial uses in the area
     2. Improve the 700 West/7200 South gateway to make access into the area easier
     3. Support redevelopment of underutilized properties to provide attractive commercial/light industrial
        flex spaces
     4. Work with UDOT to expand capacity of 7200 South I-15 interchange, including pedestrian
        improvements

East Gateway Goals:
Future land use goals for the East Gateway Opportunity Area include:

     1. Provide for higher density housing options and taller buildings in the area around the TRAX station
     2. Develop a small area plan for the development near the TRAX station
     3. Strengthen the retail areas by diversifying the mix of retail and adding more destination and
          experience shops
     4.   Enhance 7200 South with urban design standards and safer pedestrian crossings
     5.   Provide and implement new bike routes to complete transportation connections to other areas in
          the City
     6.   Support redevelopment of underutilized properties to provide attractive commercial/light industrial
          flex spaces.
     7.   Work with UDOT to provide enhanced pedestrian access and improvements along 7200 South near
          the I-15 interchange


Best Practice
Corridor Design Standards: Benefits of commercial design standards for auto-oriented community
gateways and corridors include improved flow of traffic; lowered risk of accidents; long-term reduction in
vehicle miles traveled due to more compact development; more synergy for clustered retail businesses;
and higher quality development that is sensitive to its context and thus retains its property value.
(The Minnesota GreenStep Cities Program, 29 Best Practices)




50
North State Street

The North State Street Opportunity Area is generally bounded by the City boundary on the north and
approximately 7300 South on the south. The center of the area is the State Street/7200 South intersection. The
east-west extent of the Opportunity Area varies, but the boundary is intended to encompass properties that
either front on or have direct access to State Street. The primary uses in the North State Street Opportunity
Area include retail commercial complexes at the intersection of 7200 South and State Street; multi-family
residential complexes on the west side of State Street north of 7200 South; and underutilized commercial
properties along State Street. The North State Street area is strategically located on the intersection of two
major arterial roadways and a short distance from access to I-15 and I-215. The 7200 South TRAX station is
located at approximately 180 West 7200 South adjacent to the western edge of the area, offering excellent
transit accessibility. A stable single family residential neighborhood abuts the North State Street Opportunity
Area to the east.

Goals:
Future land use goals for the North State Street Area include:

    1. Support development of higher-value commercial and business uses through the development of
         mixed-use and higher density residential uses
    2.   Support and encourage development to take advantage of transit and transportation opportunities
    3.   Support redevelopment of underutilized parcels, particularly those fronting on 7200 South and
         State Street
    4.   Explore the potential for unifying urban-design elements and beautification of the area
    5.   Employ design elements to buffer the effects of higher intensity uses in the Opportunity Area on
         adjacent existing residential uses



                   Best Practice
                   Streetscape improvements can include several elements: the addition of street trees as well as alterations
                   in planting patterns to add visual distinction to intersections. Sidewalk widening, improved lighting, public
                   art, seating and gathering spaces, bicycle lane improvements as well as theming and wayfinding design are
                   all part of what can be used to improve the streetscape.




                  Photo Source: Left: http://handbook.neighborland.com/streetscape-bayleaf-4/   Right: wfrc.org/image_library/ImageLibrary/
                  Streetscape


MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                                                 51
Middle State Street

The Middle State Street Opportunity Area is generally bounded by 7300 South on the north and approximately
7900 South on the south. The east-west extent of the Opportunity Area varies, but the boundary is intended
to encompass properties that front on or have direct access to State Street, as well as incorporates the
Center Street TRAX station. The area includes underutilized commercial uses facing State Street with limited
parking.

Goals:
Future land use goals for the Middle State Street Area include:

     1. Support development of higher-value commercial and business uses through the development of
          mixed-use and higher density residential uses
     2.   Develop a small area plan for the development near the TRAX station
     3.   Support and encourage development to take advantage of transit and transportation opportunities
     4.   Focus commercial and mixed-use development at the nodes of 7500 South and 7720/7800 South
     5.   Support redevelopment of the underutilized commercial properties between the commercial nodes
          into mixed-use residential development
     6.   Explore the potential for unifying urban-design elements and beautification of the area
     7.   Employ design elements to buffer the effects of higher intensity uses in the core areas on adjacent
          existing residential uses
     8.   Strengthen pedestrian connections to the Center Street TRAX Station


Best Practice
Transit Oriented Development (TOD): Cluster the most intense land uses in mixed- use activity center nodes
and in close proximity to public transit facilities. Intensity of development should taper off away from the
activity center, to create an appropriate transition and interface with the surrounding community. (Salt Lake
County Township General Plan: 40)

The image below illustrates how “middle” housing types, such as duplexes, triplexes, and townhomes, are
placed to provide a transition in scale from single family homes to the larger buildings on the end of the block
along the primary street or TOD.




52
South State Street

The South State Street Opportunity Area is generally bounded by 7900 South on the north and the southern
City boundary on the south, and the TRAX line on the east. The west extent of the Opportunity Area varies,
but the boundary is intended to encompass properties that either front on or have direct access to State
Street. The area includes existing industrial uses on the east side of State Street; stacked condos/townhomes
at approximately 8250 South State Street; and used car lots on the west side of State Street.

Goals:
Future land use goals for the South State Street Area include:

    1. Support development of higher-value commercial and business uses through the development of
         mixed-use and higher density residential uses
    2.   Make the 8000 South State Street intersection a commercial node
    3.   Support redevelopment of underutilized parcels
    4.   Explore the potential for unifying urban-design elements and beautification of the area
    5.   Strengthen pedestrian connections along State Street to the Center Street TRAX Station access on
         State Street just north of 8000 South
    6.   Enhance pedestrian connections east/west across State Street
    7.   Employ design elements to buffer the effects of higher intensity uses in the core areas on adjacent
         existing residential uses



                                              Best Practice
                                              Infill and Redevelopment: Promote efficient and sustainable
                                              development patterns by encouraging infill and redevelopment
                                              of corridor-adjacent properties. Envision Utah’s Quality Growth
                                              Strategy has shown that by meeting demand for multifamily housing,
                                              redeveloping under utilized areas, and reducing the average single-
                                              family lot size by less than 10%, the total land area needed to
                                              accommodate newcomers by 2020 could be cut in half (from 324
                                              square miles to 154 square miles).
                                              (Salt Lake County Township General Plan: 40)




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                      53
7200 South

The 7200 South Opportunity Area is an approximately 600 to 800 foot wide corridor centered on 7200 South
east of State Street to 700 East. The area is characterized by a variety of retail on the western end adjacent
to State Street, transitioning into housing and new office developments further east. Part of the 7200 South
Opportunity Area borders Fire Station Park to the south and includes a Fire Station. The housing in the area is
primarily single-family homes, with some apartments adjacent to 7200 South, condominiums next to Union
Park, and some newer town home developments. 7200 South is a major east-west transportation corridor
connecting State Street and I-15 on the west and Union Park Avenue to the mouth of Big Cottonwood
Canyon on the east with potential for transit connections. The 7200 South corridor is heavily traveled by Big
Cottonwood Canyon visitors.

Goals:
Future land use goals in the 7200 South Opportunity Area include:

     1.   Support new retail and office uses located west of 700 East
     2.   Plan for bike ways to connect to the 7200 South TRAX station
     3.   Develop urban design standards for new commercial development to create a distinct area character
     4.   Continue to employ design and landscaping elements to buffer the effects of higher intensity uses
          on adjacent existing residential uses




Best Practice
Mobility Options: Promote active
transportation and alternatives to single-
occupancy car travel. On average, people
are willing to walk up to 3/4 mile to access
a transit stop with at least hourly transit
service.
(The Minnesota GreenStep Cities Program,
29 Best Practices)




                                               Photo source: http://activelivingbydesign.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/5-27-2015.jpg




54
Fort Union

The Fort Union Opportunity Area is bounded by commercial properties fronting on Fort Union Boulevard
on the north, South Union Avenue and Hillcrest High School on the south, 700 East on the west and Union
Park Avenue on the east. The area is strategically located with transit stops and near connections to I-215
and I-15. The Fort Union area is a regional commercial center characterized by large retailers and chain
restaurants with commercial office space, banks and some public facilities, with the Shops at Fort Union
shopping area being a focal point. Most parking in the area is surface, which consumes a large proportion
of the space available.

Goals:
Future land use goals for the Fort Union Opportunity Area include:

    1. Diversify and increase density of land use mix to develop a compact full-service pedestrian scale
         walkable shopping center
    2.   Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system
    3.   Support redevelopment of the area to include mixed office/residential and commercial uses by
         incorporating structured parking
    4.   Strengthen retail uses in the vicinity of the Shops at Fort Union to remain competitive
    5.   Enhance Fort Union Boulevard with urban design standards to create a distinct area character
    6.   Enhance public transit to the Fort Union area
    7.   Improve internal circulation in the Fort Union area
    8.   Attract visitors traveling on Fort Union Boulevard to the Cottonwood Canyons




                      Best Practice
                      Mixed Use: Develop efficient and diverse land patterns that generate community walkablity.
                      Studies1 show that per-acre tax revenues substantially higher in mixed-use walkable places than in
                      drivable suburbs.
                      1 U.S. EPA Smart Growth (https://www.epa.gov/smartgrowth), Smart Growth for Conservatives (Bacon’s Rebellion:
                      2012)




                                                                                         Best Practice
                                                                                         Gateway art aims to aid road journey
                                                                                         navigation and make a positive and
                                                                                         lasting impression for visitors.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                                         55
Residential Development and Housing
Vision: Midvale provides a variety of diverse, high quality housing stock that incorporates a range of
housing forms and densities that appeal to new and existing residents at different income levels and life
stages while retaining the character and form of established neighborhoods.

One of Midvale’s goals is to ensure its residential development and housing is safe, supports community
functions, is efficiently served by infrastructure, provides a diversity of types and affordability, and enhances
residents’ quality of life. Much of the quality of life of a community is connected to the character of its housing.
The image of the City is to a large degree conveyed by the type, quality, and appearance of its residential
developments and neighborhoods. Midvale’s housing mix is influenced by many factors, including existing
land uses and transportation patterns, market forces, and the City’s zoning and land use regulations.

Midvale’s housing mix is integrally tied to its economics and influences the jobs and businesses that can be
attracted to and sustained by the City. Successful commercial developments depend on the close proximity
of enough residents to support them. It is of the utmost importance to Midvale’s financial well-being that
residential development in the community is attractive, diverse, and desirable. This can be achieved by
supporting excellence in design and high quality construction. The value of trees and other landscaping in
residential developments cannot be overemphasized.


Goals:
Midvale has a number of stable residential areas and attractive new residential developments. The General
Plan goals focus on building on that foundation and encouraging excellence in design and diversity of
housing types for new residential development. Residential Development and Housing goals include:

     1. Maintain and strengthen stable neighborhoods. This goal includes preserving the quality and
          character of existing neighborhoods; providing neighborhoods with better connectivity and access
          to recreational amenities; and ensuring that infill and adjacent development is compatible with the
          existing neighborhoods.
     2.   Maintain and improve the quality of the existing housing stock in Midvale, and revitalize the physical
          and social fabric of neighborhoods that are in decline.
     3.   Expand the variety of housing opportunities to allow for more choices in types and locations of
          residences. This includes providing for a mixture of housing sizes, densities, types and affordability
          in each area of the City.
     4.   Support the development of more affordable housing in appropriate locations, i.e., near transit,
          retail commercial, schools and recreational amenities.
     5.   Encourage higher density residential in appropriate locations in Opportunity Areas to create the
          market needed for viable commercial development.
     6.   Continue to encourage a variety of housing types, sizes and pricing with new developments.




Best Practice
Scale and Density Transitions: Transitions in scale and density within
residential areas should be gradual. Sharp distinctions in scale and density
on different sides of a street typically should be avoided. Identifiable edges
should be defined by natural features, transitions in development density,
and/or changes in building style, scale, buffering, or massing.
(Salt Lake County Township General Plan: 109)



56
Commercial Development and Economic
Sustainability
Vision: Midvale attracts a skilled and vibrant workforce by supporting new economic opportunities and
by capitalizing on the redevelopment of target areas and the City’s gateways. Midvale also supports local
businesses by creating neighborhood commercial areas.

Midvale is a major economic engine for Salt Lake County and has the
potential to expand its role in the region. Its proximity to I-15, the Salt
Lake International Airport, UTA TRAX and Front Runner put the City in a
position to provide new office, commercial, and industrial development
to support market demand and housing needs. High quality residential
development attracts a range of executives, professionals, employees,
and families who work in these facilities. Midvale is “in the center of
everything” at the crossroads of I-15 and I-215; and the crossroads of
State Street and 7200 South. Its location and accessibility make Midvale
a highly desirable location for investment.


                                                                              Photo Source: Top Golf
Goals:
The 2003 Economic Development Strategic Plan describes the interrelationships among community
character, neighborhoods, municipal services, transportation and economic development that support
a vibrant, successful community. Approximately 40% of Midvale’s general fund revenue is derived from
sales taxes, while only 7% comes from property and motor vehicle taxes. The balance between residential,
commercial and industrial land uses in Midvale has a significant effect on the City’s budget and ability to
deliver high-quality facilities and services to its residents, business owners, and visitors. The commercial and
economic development goals for Midvale’s future include:

    1. Plan for a balanced mix of commercial and residential land uses in Midvale to provide for the City’s
         long-term fiscal sustainability.
    2. Promote mixed-use, transit-oriented development in appropriate areas. Develop small area plans
         for development near TRAX stations and other transit hubs.
    3. Redevelop existing commercial and industrial areas to generate economic revitalization, and
         improved physical conditions.
    4. Provide an appropriate mix of quality housing choices to support commercial development and
        provide housing for the workforce.
    5.  Plan for well-located, high-quality commercial developments.
    6.  Improve the City’s economic base and its financial strength by diversifying the City’s tax base
    7.  Rekindle interest and investment in the Main Street area.
    8.  Capitalize on Midvale’s involvement in UTOPIA as a catalyst for excellent mobility of information,
        ideas, communications, data, services and future delivery of goods, and services.
    9. Strengthen tourism in Midvale through the connection of Midvale to the Wasatch Front ski and
        recreational areas.
    10. Create a positive image of Midvale by creating quality places, corridors, and locations.
    11. Enhance the City’s image through identification and preservation of historic resources.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                   57
Transportation and Mobility
VISION: MIDVALE FACILITATES A LIVABLE COMMUNITY BY ENSURING A SAFE, INTER-CONNECTED, MULTI-
MODAL INTERNAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM, AND BY FACILITATING MULTI-MODAL CONNECTIONS TO
NEIGHBORING COMMUNITIES AND THE REGION.

Midvale is in the middle of everything. The central location provides excellent access to the transportation
convenience of the entire Salt Lake Metro area, “Ski City”, and the mountains. It’s at the crossroads of
thoroughfares, interstate freeways, state roads, ski buses, Cottonwood Canyons, TRAX (regional light-
rail system with 3 stations in Midvale), and broadband access through fiber optics network onto the
informational highway of the internet. This unparalleled access to the regional transportation system and
internet provides Midvale excellent mobility for the movement of goods, services and people. This General
Plan seeks to capitalize on the benefits and opportunities of Midvale’s transportation connections with the
region; effectively managing through traffic to minimize congestion and disruptions; attract through traffic
to stop and shop in Midvale; and expand and optimize the City’s internal transportation networks.

Goals:
Goals for regional connections, local streets and coordination of vehicle traffic in and through Midvale
include:

     1. Work with UDOT and UTA in planning for major throughways and coordinate agency and City
          planning to maintain and improve traffic circulation in and through Midvale
     2. Enhance the 7200 South/Fort Union Boulevard Ski Corridor
     3. Work to maintain and improve the function of major streets and the capacity of signalized
        intersections in Midvale to optimize through capacity while maintaining efficient traffic movement
        to destinations in Midvale
     4. Preserve the safety and character of local and neighborhood streets
     5. Encourage through traffic to stop and shop in Midvale
     6. Extend existing roads, such as Tuscany View Road to Holden Street, Bingham Junction Boulevard
        through Jordan Bluffs, and Wasatch Street to Jordan Bluffs

Goals:
Goals for public transit and associated opportunities in Midvale include:

     1. Develop standards in the vicinity of the Center Street and 7200 South TRAX Stations for mixed-use
          and transit oriented developments that take advantage of the proximity of transit while protecting
          the character of adjacent residential neighborhoods
     2.   Enhance east-west vehicle connectivity and area pedestrian connectivity to TRAX stations
     3.   Evaluate the feasibility of routing the proposed 7200 South BRT route to cross under I-15 on Center
          Street
     4.   Explore opportunities for large Travel Demand Management (TDM) strategies that take advantage
          of existing transit opportunities in Midvale
     5.   Enhance public transit to the Fort Union area

Best Practice
Complete Streets: A balanced transportation system that includes complete streets can bolster
economic growth and stability by providing accessible and efficient connections between residences,
schools, parks, public transportation, offices, and retail destinations. Complete streets can reduce
transportation costs and travel time while increasing property values and job growth.
(Salt Lake County Township General Plan: 44)


58
Goals:
Goals for improving bicycle travel in Midvale include the following:

    1. Improve and encourage the use of active transportation as an alternative to vehicular travel
    2. Explore opportunities to overcome physical barriers to bicycling in Midvale by focusing on the street
       corridors that cross freeways without interchanges such as Center Street; by considering strategic
       property easements or acquisitions, and by considering strategic pedestrian/bicycle tunnels and
       bridges in order to extend bikeable corridors throughout the City
    3. Take action on bicycle lane striping projects on key streets before future traffic capacity issues rule
       them out as possibilities. One such opportunity is Center Street, which has regional support by
       being on the Utah Collaborative Active Transportation Study (UCATS). Another possibility is a trail
       along the mainline TRAX corridor
    4. Explore the potential for additional trails along the branch TRAX corridors, the Jordan River, and Salt
       Lake City Canal

Goals:
Goals for improving pedestrian travel in Midvale include the following:

    1. Enhance pedestrian accessibility to Midvale’s three TRAX stations by establishing through connections
         on the streets leading to them, thereby maximizing the “walk-shed” around them, and by improving
         the design of the streets and intersections near them to support walking
    2.   Support improvements to the pedestrian environment on State Street and 7200 South with walkways
         and more pedestrian amenities
    3.   Support effective pedestrian and bicycle access to and within commercial centers as they are
         developed and redeveloped
    4.   Support improved pedestrian access within and between Midvale neighborhoods. Connect
         disconnected sidewalk segments and pedestrian ways
    5.   Support improvement of Center Street as a corridor for pedestrians and bicycles
    6.   Enhance the pedestrian environment of Main Street south of Center Street to better connect to the
         southwest area of the City
    7.   Enhance the pedestrian environment of Main Street south of Center Street to better connect to the
         southeast area of the City
    8.   Focus on enhancing east west connections in the southeast area of the City if/as the Jordan Bluffs
         development occurs
    9.   Enhance walkability within major shopping centers


                                                                    Best Practice
                                                                    Connectivity: Increasing connectivity of
                                                                    streets, paths and sidewalks reduces travel
                                                                    distances and makes it easier for pedestrians
                                                                    and bicyclists to access destinations.




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                      59
Public Facilities, Services, and Amenities
Vision: Midvale ensures a healthy and safe community by promoting and providing a variety of community
services and amenities for all residents, businesses, and stakeholders.

Midvale provides an array of public services and facilities for its residents and visitors, including public safety
services, facilities maintenance, and Utopia. (Parks, trails and recreation facilities are described in the Parks
and Recreation element of this Plan.)

Goals:
The 2003 General Plan identifies goals and policies for the provision of public facilities and services, including
implementation of the Public Facilities Master Plan. Based on public input during the planning process, the
goals articulated in 2003 have not changed substantially. Public facilities and services goals that are carried
forward from the 2003 General Plan as updated based on input during the current planning process, include
the following:

     1. Ensure that cost-effective, efficient public facilities and services continue to be available in Midvale
     2. Continue to work with service districts, such as UFA and UPD, and play an active role to improve
          service in Midvale
     3.   Promote the use of technology and capitalize on the City’s participation in UTOPIA to deliver services
          and promote economic development in Midvale
     4.   Provide high quality design for streetscapes and other public spaces
     5.   Provide and maintain attractively landscaped and designed City gateways.
     6.   Preserve historic resources and expand preservation education and awareness in Midvale and
          specifically the Main Street area
     7.   Promote cultural and civic events and programs that enhance a positive community image
     8.   Maintain and improve the Midvale urban forest




Best Practice
Urban Forest: Add city tree and plant cover that increases
community health, wealth and quality of life. Major benefits
include increased property values and rents, as well as retail
sales. Humans are hard-wired to value the natural world and
will pay 9% more for a house with a tree within 50 feet. People
have been found to spend up to 12% more on products if they
are shopping in a district with mature trees.
(The Minnesota GreenStep Cities Program, 29 Best Practices)

In order to promote water conservation, the State of Utah
has developed a program to recognize desirable low water
use tree species, available at: https://extension.usu.edu/files/
publications/publication/HG-2003-01.pdf




                                                                   Photo by Friends of Grand Rapids Parks, www.friendsofgrparks.org/




60
Parks, Recreation, and Open Space
Vision: Midvale continues to provide and improve parks, recreation, active transportation routes, and
open space facilities as important assets of an active community. Midvale is also an important recreation
and active transportation destination along the Jordan River Parkway.

The combined areas of parks, school fields and church open spaces total approximately 192 acres in
Midvale. There are also approximately 365 acres of vacant/undeveloped land in the City, the largest of which
is Jordan Bluffs (268 acres). The remaining 97 acres are primarily in small parcels interspersed throughout
the developed areas of the City. To the extent possible, recreation facilities are anticipated to be part of the
future development of Jordan Bluffs, and some of the smaller parcels could be available for future park
needs. During the plan development process, residents expressed a desire for access to additional and
expanded parks and recreational facilities. A desire for improved connections between neighborhoods and
existing parks and recreational facilities was also expressed.

Goals:
A long-term goal for Midvale is to seek opportunities for more park and open space and recreation facilities
while improving and increasing the connectivity of the parks system with neighborhoods through additional
walking, and biking trails and connections. Specific goals for parks, recreation and trails include:

    1. Provide additional park acreage within underserved residential neighborhoods through
         neighborhood and mini park development on vacant or underutilized land
    2. Improve non-motorized neighborhood access to City parks and recreation facilities with sidewalks,
         trails and pedestrian ways
    3. Explore new partnering opportunities with Salt Lake County and other recreation activity and
         program providers to expand access to parks and recreation facilities and programs for Midvale
         residents through shared facilities and jointly-sponsored recreation programs
    4.   Update and implement the Midvale 2004 Trails Master Plan to provide an interconnected trails
         network in the City
    5.   Improve community connections to the Jordan River Parkway, such as the connection to Murray to
         the north and Jordan River Boulevard
    6.   Explore opportunities to improve physical access to parks and recreation facilities outside Midvale
         City limits
    7.   Explore opportunities for a new Community/Recreation Center in Midvale through options such as
         bonding, special recreation districts, partnerships between the City and County or between public
         and private entities, and general fund sources
    8.   Develop parks, trails, and outdoor recreation facilities in an environmentally sensitive manner to
         help protect and enhance the natural environment
    9.   Continue to require appropriate private recreation facilities in new housing developments



                                          Best Practice
                                          Parks and Trais: Plan and budget for a network of parks, green spaces, water
                                          features and trails for areas where new development is planned. Studies
                                          have demonstrated that access to parks and trails increases physical activity
                                          - the research findings suggest locating playing areas, parks and trails within
                                          a 1/4 mile of residential areas - and that direct contact with vegetation or
                                          nature leads to increased mental health and psychological development.
                                          (The Minnesota GreenStep Cities Program, 29 Best Practices)




MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                            61
4                                 OUR COMMITMENT




Implementation Initiatives
The implementation strategies of many general plans focus on identifying future, presumably different,
land uses and making amendments to the City’s zoning and development regulations. For Midvale, broad
changes in current land uses are not anticipated, and the City’s current zoning and development regulations
are, for the most part, aligned with the goals and direction of the General Plan. The Implementation Initiatives
identified in this General Plan focus on refining existing regulations; catalyzing the kinds of development in
Opportunity Areas that the City seeks; enhancing stable neighborhoods; and improving bicycle, pedestrian
and vehicular connectivity within and through the City.

In developing this General Plan, the planning team endeavored to make Plan goals as focused and specific
as reasonably possible in order to make the City’s direction clear. Many of the Plan goals, particularly goals
for the Opportunity Areas, describe the implementation as part of the goal statement. These specific Plan
goals are not repeated in this Chapter 4. Other Plan goals are more programmatic. In several cases, goals
identified in different elements of Chapter 3 can be addressed by a single implementation initiative or group
of initiatives. Implementation initiatives in this Chapter 4 focus on strategies that will address multiple Plan
goals.



62
Initiative 1: Conduct Development Design Studies for Opportunity Areas
Each of the identified Opportunity Areas has a unique set of circumstances and objectives for future
development. However, the goals for each Opportunity Area identify objectives related to commercial
and residential uses; connectivity and walkability; transit; site design; and buffering from adjacent uses.
In order to acknowledge the similarities and differences between the Opportunity Areas, and evaluate the
opportunities and challenges for future development, individualized design studies should be prepared for
each Opportunity Area. The design studies would develop a range of development and redevelopment design
scenarios for each Opportunity Areas to explore alternative future development densities and patterns.
The design studies would include an evaluation of economic sustainability of the alternative development
scenarios to address costs of service, and property and sales tax revenues. The design studies would also
develop buffering strategies to protect uses in Stability Areas from adverse effects of more intensive land
uses in adjacent Opportunity Areas.

Initiative 2: Develop small area plans around transit centers
One of Midvale’s great strengths is its connectivity to other areas of the Wasatch Front and beyond. The
presence of TRAX and other transit stations and centers in Midvale also offers opportunities for compact
land uses that optimize connectivity within and outside Midvale; place residential uses within walking/
biking distance of commercial areas, recreation facilities and other destinations; and create opportunities
for diverse, vibrant retail and entertainment centers. Small area plans in the vicinity of the Center Street
and 7200 South TRAX stations in Midvale would develop standards for mixed-use and transit oriented
developments that take advantage of the proximity of transit while protecting the character of adjacent
residential neighborhoods. A mix of residential and commercial uses would take advantage of the reduced
need for automobile travel and would expand the City’s retail sales tax base. The small area plans would
also enhance east-west vehicle connectivity and area pedestrian connectivity to TRAX stations. Part of the
planning could include an evaluation of the feasibility of routing the proposed 7200 South Bus Rapid Transit
route to cross under I-15 on Center Street. While no specific plans exist yet, Midvale should also monitor
planning for the transit hub in consideration for the vicinity of the Midvale Family Center/Union Park area
in Cottonwood Heights in terms of its feasibility and potential effects to adjacent land uses within Midvale.
The City should also explore opportunities for large Travel Demand Management (TDM) strategies that take
advantage of existing transit opportunities in Midvale.

Initiative 3: Update Trails Plan and Develop Bicycle/Pedestrian Mobility
Implementation Plan
The City’s 2004 Trails Master Plan identifies the routes of existing and future active (non-motorized)
transportation and recreational trails. The Trails Plan doesn’t, however, describe implementation steps or
initiatives. Midvale would develop a Bicycle/Pedestrian Mobility Implementation Plan, using the Trails Master
Plan as the basis, to identify specific implementing projects and other initiatives. The Implementation Plan
would include the following:

    1. Pursue opportunities to overcome physical barriers and barriers due to access to bicycling in Midvale
       by focusing on the street corridors that cross freeways without interchanges; by considering strategic
       property easements or acquisitions, and by considering strategic pedestrian/bicycle tunnels and
       bridges in order to extend bikeable corridors throughout the City.
    2. Take action on bicycle lane striping projects on key streets before future traffic capacity issues rule
       them out as possibilities. Support improvement of Center Street as a corridor for pedestrians and
       bicycles, which has regional support by being on the UCATS plan.
    3. Explore the potential for additional trails along the mainline and branch TRAX corridors and the
       Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal.
    4. Enhance pedestrian accessibility to Midvale’s TRAX stations by establishing through connections on


MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN                                                                                 63
          the streets leading to them, thereby maximizing the “walk-shed” around them, and by improving the
          design of the streets and intersections near them to support walking.
     5.   Pursue improvements to the pedestrian environment on State Street and 7200 South with walkways
          and more pedestrian amenities.
     6.   Enhance the pedestrian environment of Main Street south of Center Street to better connect to the
          southeast and southwest areas of the City. Improve east-west connections in the southeast area of
          the City as the Jordan Bluffs development occurs.
     7.   Require effective pedestrian and bicycle access to and within commercial centers as they are
          developed and redeveloped.
     8.   Pursue improved pedestrian access within and between Midvale neighborhoods. Connect
          disconnected sidewalk segments and pedestrian ways.

Initiative 4: Develop Design Standards and Urban Design Element Themes for Public
Infrastructure
Midvale can brand itself and create a sense of arrival and differentiation from adjacent cites by developing
design standards and themes for public infrastructure, including entryways, streetscapes, signage and
way-finding, and public buildings. In particular, a unified design theme for Main Street would help catalyze
development and redevelopment that is in keeping with the character of the historic area.

Initiative 5: Create a Housing Division of the Redevelopment Agency of Midvale
In order to guide future development and strengthen housing for new and existing residents, the City should
establish a housing division that can become proactive in improving the quality of the existing housing stock
in Midvale and revitalize the physical and social fabric of neighborhoods in decline.

The housing division should define specific goals and objectives to implement the vision of the General Plan
in order to meet the needs of its residents. These objectives should identify potential housing types and
appropriate density levels as well as affordability.

Through collaboration with the Redevelopment Agency, Midvale should seek out partnerships and provide
ongoing funding to accomplish its mission. The division could develop programs that would encourage the
rehabilitation of housing and improvement of aging neighborhoods. A successful housing division could
also provide new residential opportunities and promote housing projects that are attractive and desirable
to a variety of residents.




64
                                                                     APPENDICES




Appendices........................................... A- 1
            A: LYRB Sales Tax Analysis........................ A-2
            B: Parametrix Transportation Assessment.. A-23
            C: Neighborhood Assessment................... A-28




APPENDICES                                                                    A- 1
APPENDIX A: SALES TAX ANALYSIS




                            SALES TAX ANALYSIS
                              MIDVALE CITY, UT




                                         JANUARY 2016




A- 2                    2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
     SALES TAX LEAKAGE ANALYSIS
     MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                          JANUARY 2016




                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


  SECTION I: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................. 3

  SECTION II: HISTORIC RETAIL SALES ............................................................. 4

  SECTION III: RETAIL SALES LEAKAGE ANALYSIS .......................................... 5

  SECTION IV: BUYING POWER ANALYSIS ........................................................ 8

  APPENDIX A: SALES LEAKAGE COMPARISONS ............................................ 9




  Page2
APPENDICES                                                                                            A- 3
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                              JANUARY 2016




       SECTION I: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
       This report provides an analysis of the economic sustainability of the Midvale City (City) in relation to its sales tax
       revenue stream. Included in this report is an overview of retail sales, a sales leakage and capture analysis, and a
       buying power analysis. This information will assist the City in attracting businesses to fill service gaps, prepare
       economic development strategies to keep retail sales in the City, determine overall economic development plans,
       and provide an overall update of the City’s sales tax revenue. A sales gap (“leakage”) analysis is conducted in order
       to identify economic development opportunities for a community by evaluating the total purchases made by residents
       inside and outside the community (hence, the term ‘leakage” for sales residents make outside the community and
       “capture” for sales gained from non-city residents).

       HISTORIC RETAIL SALES
                Midvale’s gross sales have grown at an annual rate of seven percent. This annual average growth rate
                (AAGR) exceeds all other comparable cities by .5 percent.
                However, the City’s gross sales per capita has grown at a slower rate than other comparable Cities. At four
                percent, the City’s AAGR is surpassed by over half of the comparable cities. This suggests that while gross
                taxable sales are increasing, it may not be keeping pace with population growth.
                The City’s greatest retail strength based on total taxable sales is food and beverage, followed by general
                merchandise, sporting goods, and building materials.

       SALES TAX LEAKAGE
                The sales leakage analysis suggests the City captures 140 percent of the income adjusted Sate spending
                per capita of $12,457 (income adjusted based on Midvale’s median per capita income).
                In 2013, the city captured 148 percent which may be attributed to a disproportionate population change
                compared with the per capita income change.
                From the sales leakage analysis it is apparent that the following opportunities for development may exist
                and be well received by City residents:

                    o     Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers
                    o     General Merchandise Stores
                    o     Non-Store Retailers
                    o     Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation

                        TABLE 1.1: SALES TAX LEAKAGE
                        CATEGORY                                LEAKAGE REVENUE       ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
                        Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets               ($183,409)                        $917
                        Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers          ($18,589,968)                      $92,950
                        Retail-General Merchandise Stores             ($13,981,729)                      $69,909
                        Non-Store Retailers                            ($1,775,736)                       $8,879
                        Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation               ($4,869,258)                      $24,346
                        Accommodation                                    ($796,082)                       $3,980
                        Total                                         ($40,196,182)                    $200,981


                Based on the .5 percent point of sales tax rate, the City could collect an additional $200,981 in tax revenue
                as shown in Table 1.1.

       BUYING POWER ANALYSIS
                The buying power of Midvale residents could increase between $2.67 million based on the State per capita
                spending and $3.75 million based on the City’s current per capita spending, annually through 2020, due to a
                population increase of approximately 1,285 residents. This is a helpful predicator for future sales tax growth
                potential in Midvale.


       Page3
A- 4                                                                     2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
       SALES TAX ANALYSIS
       MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                    JANUARY 2016




  SECTION II: HISTORIC RETAIL SALES
  The tables below show historic gross sales related to business within Midvale City and comparison cities by year, the
  average annual growth rate (AAGR) in sales data, as well as taxable sales per capita data. It is important to note
  that the analysis of historic sales and comparison of taxable sales by community is based on the calendar year
  taxable sales reports compiled by the Utah State Tax Commission. For privacy reasons, the annual taxable sales by
  category are often inflated to protect the sales information for groups within a category that do not have a large
  enough sample of businesses. The figures below are used to provide a trend analysis and allow a comparison to
  surrounding communities where actual detailed data is not available.

  Midvale City’s gross sales have grown at an annual rate of seven percent. This annual average growth rate exceeds
  all other comparable cities by .5 percent, as illustrated in Table 2.1. The AAGR per capita for Midvale is four percent,
  which is surpassed by over half of the comparable cities as shown in Table 2.2 and Graph 2.1. This suggests that
  while gross taxable sales are increasing, it may not be keeping pace with population growth.
  TABLE 2.1: GROSS TAXABLE SALES
            CITY                  2010              2011             2012             2013             2014             AAGR
  Midvale                       $530,248,214      $570,379,373     $611,951,093     $678,977,139      $695,597,515        7.0%
  Cottonwood Heights            $410,769,016      $406,410,813     $433,110,483     $474,515,318      $467,695,844        3.3%
  South Salt Lake              $1,127,865,679    $1,183,346,824   $1,246,932,888   $1,290,468,867    $1,408,932,036       5.7%
  Riverton                      $310,076,638      $331,874,506     $352,359,554     $368,268,721      $395,577,613        6.3%
  Murray                       $1,515,427,839    $1,649,736,688   $1,791,828,003   $1,846,357,391    $1,949,419,246       6.5%
  West Jordan                  $1,180,515,132    $1,229,449,515   $1,290,513,275   $1,357,036,538    $1,415,668,971       4.6%
  Holladay                      $181,801,105      $186,543,724     $193,397,282     $202,420,167      $223,239,995        5.3%

  TABLE 2.2: GROSS TAXABLE SALES PER CAPITA
            CITY                   2010            2011             2012            2013               2014             AAGR
  Midvale                             $18,735          $19,899        $20,206              $22,025            $21,926     4.0%
  Cottonwood Heights                  $12,282          $12,040        $12,727              $13,846            $13,689     2.7%
  South Salt Lake                     $47,609          $49,286        $51,177              $52,168            $56,931     4.6%
  Riverton                             $7,964           $8,385         $8,710               $8,987             $9,542     4.6%
  Murray                              $32,432          $34,965        $37,145              $37,965            $39,929     5.3%
  West Jordan                         $11,337          $11,536        $11,908              $12,316            $12,763     3.0%
  Holladay                             $6,865           $6,978         $7,173               $7,449             $8,229     4.6%

  GRAPH 2.1: GROSS TAXABLE SALES PER CAPITA
    60,000                                                                                             Midvale
    50,000
                                                                                                       Cottonwood Heights
    40,000
    30,000                                                                                             South Salt Lake
    20,000                                                                                             Riverton
    10,000
                                                                                                       Murray
         -
                       2010               2011            2012           2013           2014           West Jordan


  Midvale City’s greatest retail strength is food and beverage, followed by general merchandise, sporting goods, and
  building materials as detailed in Graph 2.2. Health and personal retail represents the lowest percent of total retail
  sales for Midvale City.




  Page4
APPENDICES                                                                                                                       A- 5
            SALES TAX ANALYSIS
            MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                JANUARY 2016



       GRAPH 2.2: MIDVALE RETAIL AS A PERCENT OF TOTAL TAXABLE SALES
        60%
                                                                                               Miscellaneous Retail Trade
        55%
                                                                                               General Merchandise
        50%
        45%                                                                                    Sporting Good
        40%                                                                                    Clothing & Accessories
        35%                                                                                    Gas Station
        30%                                                                                    Health & Personal
        25%
                                                                                               Food & Beverage
        20%
                                                                                               Building Material & Garden Equip
        15%
                                                                                               Electrical & Appliance
        10%
          5%                                                                                   Furniture & Home Furnishing
          0%                                                                                   Motor Vehicle
                      2010                2011                2012     2013           2014




       Page5
A- 6                                                                          2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
          SALES TAX ANALYSIS
          MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                     JANUARY 2016




  SECTION III: RETAIL SALES LEAKAGE ANALYSIS
  The following outlines Midvale’s sales capture by category for 2014. The analysis identifies in which categories
  Midvale City is experiencing sales leakage and which categories could potentially be developed. Negative income
  adjusted per capita numbers estimate the approximate amount being spent per person (on average) outside of
  Midvale City boundaries by all residents. Positive numbers indicate that Midvale is attracting more than its fair share
  of purchases (shoppers from outside the City are attracted to the area for certain types of purchases).

  Overall, Midvale is capturing 140 percent of all sales categories of all retail sales that occur within the City, based on
  the income adjusted Sate spending per capita of $12,457 (income adjusted based on Midvale’s median per capita
  income). In order to retain confidentiality, as required by statute, only major categories are included below in Table
  3.1. The information below is based on the 2014 information for major North American Industry Classification
  System (NAICS) Codes as collected by the Utah State Tax Commission.
  TABLE 3.1: RETAIL SALES CAPTURE
                                                                                                     2014      2010
                                                     INCOME ADJUSTED     TOTAL INCOME ADJUSTED
                     CATEGORY                                                                       CAPTURE   CAPTURE   DIFFERENCE
                                                        PER CAPITA              LEAKAGE
                                                                                                     RATE      RATE
  Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                  $148                 $4,692,705       112%      133%        -20%
  Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                               $625                $19,823,516       344%      387%        -43%
  Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                              ($6)                 ($183,409)       66%       47%         18%
  Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                          ($586)              ($18,589,968)       67%       80%        -13%
  Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     $128                 $4,073,590       147%      176%        -30%
  Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                          $272                 $8,617,125       199%      192%          7%
  Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies
                                                                 $728                $23,087,206       191%      131%         60%
  Dealers
  Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                $1,210                $38,382,462       192%      208%        -15%
  Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                           $103                 $3,281,287       166%      144%         21%
  Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       $104                 $3,303,084       132%      146%        -14%
  Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  $267                 $8,464,824       149%      193%        -44%
  Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book
                                                               $1,080                $34,248,583       433%      551%       -118%
  Stores
  Retail-General Merchandise Stores                             ($441)              ($13,981,729)       78%       73%          5%
  Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                              $262                 $8,320,565       149%      175%        -27%
  Non-Store Retailers                                            ($56)               ($1,775,736)       70%       48%         22%
  Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                              ($153)               ($4,869,258)       24%       34%        -10%
  Accommodation                                                  ($25)                 ($796,082)       95%      101%         -7%
  Food Services & Drinking Places                              $1,070                $33,946,681       182%      184%         -2%
  Other Services-Except Public Administration                     309                 $9,790,614       167%      172%         -5%
  Total                                                        $5,038               $159,836,063       140%      153%        -13%


  The decrease in capture rate from 2010 to 2014 may be attributed to a disproportionate population change compared
  with the per capita income change. From 2010-2014, Midvale’s population experienced an AAGR of 2.90 percent
  while the per capital income AAGR from 2010-2014 was only 1.76 percent.

  Additionally, a comparison of the decline in capture rates to total market share, or the percent of total taxable sales
  within a community when compared to surrounding communities, illustrates that Midvale has increased its market
  share by .5 percent from 2010, as shown in Table 3.2. While 2013 showed an increase in capture rates when
  compared to the previous year, it declined again in 2014 which may suggest that while the City’s total taxable sales
  have increased since 2010 and there is a net capture of sales within the community, population growth may be


  Page6
APPENDICES                                                                                                                           A- 7
               SALES TAX ANALYSIS
               MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                  JANUARY 2016



       outpacing growth in retail sales. Thus an effort to offer additional retail opportunities may increase the per capital
       sales variables within the community.

       TABLE 3.2 COMPARISON OF MARKET SHARE
                                                       2010          2011        2012          2013              2014       NET CHANGE 2010-2015
       Midvale Capture Rate                            153%          148%        140%          148%              140%
       Market Share
       Midvale                                         10%            10%        10%            11%              11%                 0.5%
       Cottonwood Heights                              8%             7%         7%             8%               7%                 -0.7%
       South Salt Lake                                 21%            21%        21%            21%              21%                 0.0%
       Riverton                                        6%             6%         6%             6%               6%                  0.1%
       Murray                                          29%            30%        30%            30%              30%                 0.9%
       West Jordan                                     22%            22%        22%            22%              22%                -0.9%
       Holladay                                        3%             3%         3%             3%               3%                 -0.1%


       Based on the leakage described above, the City is capturing the majority of its sales tax revenue potential. Given a .5
       percent point of sales tax rate, the City could collect an additional $200,981 in tax revenue as noted in Table 3.3,
       assuming the City could capture 100 percent of retail sales that currently are being “leaked” to other communities.
       TABLE 3.3 ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
       CATEGORY                                                                          LEAKAGE REVENUE                ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
       Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                                                $4,692,705                                     -
       Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                                            $19,823,516                                     -
       Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                                           ($183,409)                                 $917
       Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                                                      ($18,589,968)                               $92,950
       Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                                                   $4,073,590                                     -
       Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                                                        $8,617,125                                     -
       Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers                                    $23,087,206                                     -
       Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                                               $38,382,462                                     -
       Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                                                         $3,281,287                                     -
       Retail-Gasoline Stations                                                                     $3,303,084                                     -
       Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                                                $8,464,824                                     -
       Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                                           $34,248,583                                     -
       Retail-General Merchandise Stores                                                         ($13,981,729)                               $69,909
       Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                                            $8,320,565                                     -
       Non-Store Retailers                                                                        ($1,775,736)                                $8,879
       Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                                           ($4,869,258)                               $24,346
       Accommodation                                                                                ($796,082)                                $3,980
       Food Services & Drinking Places                                                             $33,946,681                                     -
       Other Services-Except Public Administration                                                  $9,790,614                                     -
       Total                                                                                     $159,836,063                               $200,981


       As illustrated in Table 3.4, Midvale’s estimated revenue loss is only slightly higher than South Salt Lake and Murray,
       while the other comparison cities experience a much greater loss.
       TABLE 3.4: COMPARABLE CITY ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
       CITY                                         ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
       Midvale                                                       $200,981
       Cottonwood Heights                                           $1,806,512
       South Salt Lake                                               $186,728
       Riverton                                                     $1,506,021
       Murray                                                        $184,467
       West Jordan                                                  $1,987,127
       Holladay                                                     $2,094,203




       Page7
A- 8                                                                                   2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
       SALES TAX ANALYSIS
       MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                               JANUARY 2016




  SECTION IV: BUYING POWER ANALYSIS
  As of 2014, Midvale‘s population was 31,725. The population is expected to increase to 33,010 by 2020. The buying
  power analysis considers a range based on the State adjusted per capita spending of $12,457 and the Midvale
  spending per capita of $17,495. Based on the current State per capita spending, the buying power of Midvale
  residents could increase by $2.67 million annually through 2020, due to a population increase of approximately 1,285
  residents. However, the current Midvale spending per capita could generate closer to $3.75 million annually through
  2020 assuming spending patterns within the City remain consistent. This is a helpful predicator for future sales tax
  growth potential in Midvale.

  TABLE 4.1: BUYING POWER ANALYSIS
                                                             STATE PER     BUYING POWER GROWTH       MIDVALE PER     BUYING POWER GROWTH
                                                              CAPITA             2014-2020             CAPITA              2014-2020
  Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                   $1,215                $1,562,152          $1,363                $1,752,295
  Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                  $256                  $329,063            $881                $1,132,288
  Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                 $17                   $21,573             $11                   $14,141
  Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                            $1,789                $2,299,110          $1,203                $1,545,867
  Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                        $276                  $354,848            $404                  $519,905
  Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                             $273                  $351,047            $545                  $700,203
  Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers          $800                $1,028,768          $1,528                $1,964,233
  Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                   $1,314                $1,688,875          $2,524                $3,244,086
  Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                              $157                  $202,419            $261                  $335,373
  Retail-Gasoline Stations                                          $326                  $419,431            $430                  $553,268
  Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                     $545                  $701,182            $812                $1,044,166
  Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                 $324                  $416,897          $1,404                $1,804,609
  Retail-General Merchandise Stores                               $2,007                $2,580,375          $1,567                $2,013,852
  Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                 $540                  $693,720            $802                $1,030,860
  Non-Store Retailers                                               $187                  $239,905            $131                  $167,955
  Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                  $202                  $259,871             $49                   $62,574
  Accommodation                                                     $458                  $589,066            $433                  $556,810
  Food Services & Drinking Places                                 $1,307                $1,680,049          $2,377                $3,055,528
  Other Services-Except Public Administration                       $462                  $594,357            $771                  $991,061
  Total                                                          $12,457               $16,012,709        $17,495                $22,489,074
  Annual                                                                                $2,668,785                                $3,748,179




  Page8
APPENDICES                                                                                                                                     A- 9
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2016




APPENDIX A: SALES LEAKAGE COMPARISONS

2014 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, SOUTH SALT LAKE, RIVERTON COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                          SOUTH SALT LAKE                              RIVERTON
                         CATEGORY                              PER CAPITA       TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA       TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA       TOTAL       CAPTURE RATE
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                 (1,578)    (53,909,286)            19%       11,985      296,606,119       1473%       (1,084)     (44,940,414)          20%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                (366)    (12,494,577)            11%        1,606       39,752,012        974%          (63)      (2,618,296)          78%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                               (24)       (827,956)            10%           59        1,451,741        587%          (18)        (758,520)           3%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                          (2,697)    (92,136,706)             6%        8,328      206,101,884        748%       (1,775)     (73,571,747)          11%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                      (413)    (14,110,911)             7%        2,597       64,272,255       1410%         (295)     (12,239,983)           4%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                            (95)     (3,243,429)            78%        1,644       40,677,205        938%         (188)      (7,789,767)          39%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers         (77)     (2,643,205)            94%        5,607      138,751,165       1076%           486       20,162,523         154%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                   (428)    (14,606,947)            80%           192       4,751,481        120%         (862)     (35,726,841)          41%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                              403      13,784,959           260%            45       1,109,962        140%         (103)      (4,263,805)          42%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                        (292)     (9,980,858)            44%           160       3,951,116        168%         (226)      (9,386,337)          38%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                   (437)    (14,945,720)            50%         (331)     (8,194,574)         15%         (532)     (22,070,948)          13%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores               (281)     (9,616,752)            46%            78       1,922,924        133%         (287)     (11,907,070)          21%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                             (1,033)    (35,282,716)            68%         (990)    (24,506,772)         31%            33        1,356,777         101%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                               (621)    (21,233,774)            28%        2,696       66,719,800        796%         (487)     (20,199,915)          19%
Non-Store Retailers                                             (112)     (3,812,378)            63%          115         2,851,388       186%          (88)      (3,635,887)          58%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                (263)     (8,977,359)            19%          116         2,860,410       180%         (189)      (7,843,734)          16%
Accommodation                                                   (667)    (22,785,023)             9%        (188)       (4,644,189)        43%         (513)     (21,258,087)           0%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                 (599)    (20,470,032)            71%          788       19,503,917        184%         (452)     (18,748,406)          69%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                     (592)    (20,224,796)            20%        2,354       58,259,870        809%         (102)      (4,244,484)          80%
Total                                                        (10,171)   (347,517,466)            49%       36,859      912,197,712        512%       (6,746)    (279,684,941)          52%




Page9
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2016




2014 MURRAY, WEST JORDAN, HOLLADAY COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                              MURRAY                                   WEST JORDAN                               HOLLADAY
                        CATEGORY                              PER CAPITA      TOTAL       CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA      TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA      TOTAL        CAPTURE RATE
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                    1,956      95,512,193          228%         (669)     (74,158,616)       44%       (1,708)     (46,342,537)          15%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                     19        906,508          106%           100       11,087,499      140%         (382)     (10,353,770)          10%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                 (16)      (773,932)           25%             3          302,624      117%          (27)        (722,295)           5%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                             6,507     317,699,333          389%       (1,549)    (171,760,945)       11%       (2,845)     (77,183,404)           4%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                       1,242       60,636,250         458%         (126)     (13,947,539)       53%         (416)     (11,288,275)           9%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                              598       29,177,069         274%            34        3,819,520      113%         (411)     (11,138,288)          10%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers           910       44,441,694         190%           718       79,651,597      192%       (1,001)     (27,143,122)          25%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                    (257)     (12,529,364)          84%             0              727      100%       (1,312)     (35,591,874)          40%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                               385       18,820,233         295%          (53)      (5,857,576)       66%          (74)      (2,017,664)          72%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                         (137)      (6,680,035)          67%          (81)      (9,028,479)       74%         (423)     (11,473,661)          22%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                    3,166     154,576,956          561%          (43)      (4,775,057)       92%         (728)     (19,737,628)          20%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                  480      23,432,209          218%         (130)     (14,396,034)       59%         (328)      (8,896,308)          39%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                                2,508     122,452,512          199%           131       14,534,699      107%       (3,313)     (89,882,082)           1%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                  318      15,537,061          147%             2          236,477      100%          (64)      (1,735,026)          93%
Non-Store Retailers                                                  33      1,619,739          114%         (101)     (11,164,758)       45%         (237)      (6,420,909)          24%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                   (10)      (503,174)           96%         (116)     (12,889,268)       41%         (141)      (3,837,556)          58%
Accommodation                                                     (336)    (16,406,943)          42%         (417)     (46,245,737)         7%        (449)     (12,178,509)          41%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                     808      39,433,659         149%         (189)     (21,006,390)        85%        (988)     (26,801,968)          55%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                         676      32,997,664         216%         (110)     (12,195,018)        76%        (593)     (16,095,678)          23%
Total                                                           18,851     920,349,632          220%       (2,595)    (287,792,274)        79%    (15,439)     (418,840,554)          25%




Page10
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2016




2013 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, SOUTH SALT LAKE, RIVERTON COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                         Cottonwood Heights                          South Salt Lake                                  Riverton
                                                                  Per
                          Category                               Capita        Total     Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total         Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total       Capture Rate
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                (1,480)     (50,712,788)           21%       10,792      266,962,993          1380%        (1,130)     (46,307,951)          14%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                               (385)     (13,177,607)             9%       1,567        38,772,824           928%           (73)     (3,009,060)          75%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                              (24)        (824,062)             6%           59        1,466,990           618%           (17)       (710,541)            3%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                         (2,540)     (87,039,631)             6%       7,525      186,156,974            718%       (1,664)     (68,176,695)          12%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     (390)     (13,357,012)             5%       2,259        55,882,581         1325%          (272)     (11,144,064)            5%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                              1           41,934          100%        1,870        46,249,066         1052%          (145)      (5,961,983)          52%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers        (14)        (495,102)           99%        4,717      116,693,572            982%           446      18,286,660          154%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                  (431)     (14,757,252)           79%           137        3,398,478           115%         (775)     (31,769,118)          45%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                             446      15,288,267           288%            33         811,635            131%           (99)     (4,044,810)          40%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       (272)      (9,324,893)           46%           147        3,640,433           165%         (213)      (8,730,143)          40%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  (417)     (14,290,262)           52%         (307)      (7,593,392)            21%         (520)     (21,318,961)          14%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores              (305)     (10,446,581)           42%            86        2,124,088           137%         (299)     (12,239,167)          18%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                              (986)     (33,774,402)           69%         (988)     (24,447,766)            31%            75       3,074,037          103%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                              (597)     (20,455,020)           28%        2,547        63,015,445           786%         (441)     (18,056,393)          24%
Non-Store Retailers                                             (38)      (1,312,233)           86%           167        4,127,264           234%           (93)     (3,808,612)          52%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                               (237)      (8,108,775)           16%            74        1,831,133           158%         (161)      (6,596,445)          19%
Accommodation                                                  (636)     (21,805,516)             9%        (183)      (4,516,569)            42%           493      20,205,289          201%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                (484)     (16,601,538)           75%           800       19,791,262           191%       (1,010)     (41,392,358)          27%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                    (566)     (19,396,308)           20%        1,720        42,551,572           640%         (495)     (20,280,505)            0%
Total                                                        (9,354)   (320,548,782)            51%       33,024      816,918,583            484%       (6,393)    (261,980,819)          52%




Page11
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2016




2013 MURRAY, WEST JORDAN, HOLLADAY COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                              Murray                                  West Jordan                                    Holladay
                                                               Per
                           Category                           Capita          Total       Capture Rate   Per Capita      Total        Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total       Capture Rate
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                  1,636        79,586,517          211%         (663)     (73,097,742)          42%       (1,695)     (46,045,009)          13%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                       7       363,507          102%           117      12,940,681          146%         (395)     (10,738,947)          10%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                               (16)        (774,609)           21%            (1)       (135,861)          92%          (12)        (320,061)          56%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                           6,154       299,269,465          388%       (1,469)    (161,849,701)          11%       (2,674)     (72,669,234)           5%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     1,395        67,852,451          532%            (5)       (563,783)          98%         (376)     (10,209,752)          12%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                            597        29,014,922          273%            30       3,263,360          111%         (405)     (11,001,663)          11%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers         860        41,825,561          192%           655      72,159,857          190%         (917)     (24,920,954)          26%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                  (236)       (11,482,064)          85%            (4)       (408,551)         100%       (1,263)     (34,329,840)          40%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                             414        20,148,459          322%          (50)      (5,466,427)          66%          (65)      (1,767,027)          74%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       (130)        (6,307,824)          67%          (77)      (8,445,351)          75%         (415)     (11,272,419)          21%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  3,117       151,582,979          560%          (37)      (4,100,333)          93%         (742)     (20,174,644)          17%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                514        24,979,240          225%         (135)     (14,865,331)          58%         (357)      (9,690,718)          34%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                              2,472       120,217,202          199%           202      22,236,309          110%       (3,274)     (88,960,190)           1%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                280        13,612,531          143%          (28)      (3,054,572)          94%          (13)        (356,651)          98%
Non-Store Retailers                                                    1        47,244          100%          (70)      (7,763,952)          58%         (225)      (6,117,208)          22%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                  35         1,714,266          116%          (94)     (10,351,664)          45%         (145)      (3,945,933)          51%
Accommodation                                                  (403)       (19,599,541)          27%         (396)     (43,658,432)           7%         (525)     (14,260,479)          28%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                  758        36,869,801          149%         (133)     (14,671,832)          89%       (1,001)     (27,208,223)          51%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                      490        23,825,770          188%         (106)     (11,656,252)          76%         (563)     (15,309,990)          24%
Total                                                         17,946       872,745,875          219%       (2,264)    (249,489,574)          81%     (15,063)     (409,298,942)          24%




Page12
          SALES TAX ANALYSIS
          MIDVALE CITY, UT                                    JANUARY 2016




        Page13
A- 14                          2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
          SALES TAX ANALYSIS
          MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                     JANUARY 2016




  SECTION III: RETAIL SALES LEAKAGE ANALYSIS
  The following outlines Midvale’s sales capture by category for 2014. The analysis identifies in which categories
  Midvale City is experiencing sales leakage and which categories could potentially be developed. Negative income
  adjusted per capita numbers estimate the approximate amount being spent per person (on average) outside of
  Midvale City boundaries by all residents. Positive numbers indicate that Midvale is attracting more than its fair share
  of purchases (shoppers from outside the City are attracted to the area for certain types of purchases).

  Overall, Midvale is capturing 140 percent of all sales categories of all retail sales that occur within the City, based on
  the income adjusted Sate spending per capita of $12,457 (income adjusted based on Midvale’s median per capita
  income). In order to retain confidentiality, as required by statute, only major categories are included below in Table
  3.1. The information below is based on the 2014 information for major North American Industry Classification
  System (NAICS) Codes as collected by the Utah State Tax Commission.
  TABLE 3.1: RETAIL SALES CAPTURE
                                                                                                     2014      2010
                                                     INCOME ADJUSTED     TOTAL INCOME ADJUSTED
                     CATEGORY                                                                       CAPTURE   CAPTURE   DIFFERENCE
                                                        PER CAPITA              LEAKAGE
                                                                                                     RATE      RATE
  Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                  $148                 $4,692,705       112%      133%        -20%
  Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                               $625                $19,823,516       344%      387%        -43%
  Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                              ($6)                 ($183,409)       66%       47%         18%
  Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                          ($586)              ($18,589,968)       67%       80%        -13%
  Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     $128                 $4,073,590       147%      176%        -30%
  Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                          $272                 $8,617,125       199%      192%          7%
  Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies
                                                                 $728                $23,087,206       191%      131%         60%
  Dealers
  Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                $1,210                $38,382,462       192%      208%        -15%
  Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                           $103                 $3,281,287       166%      144%         21%
  Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       $104                 $3,303,084       132%      146%        -14%
  Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  $267                 $8,464,824       149%      193%        -44%
  Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book
                                                               $1,080                $34,248,583       433%      551%       -118%
  Stores
  Retail-General Merchandise Stores                             ($441)              ($13,981,729)       78%       73%          5%
  Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                              $262                 $8,320,565       149%      175%        -27%
  Non-Store Retailers                                            ($56)               ($1,775,736)       70%       48%         22%
  Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                              ($153)               ($4,869,258)       24%       34%        -10%
  Accommodation                                                  ($25)                 ($796,082)       95%      101%         -7%
  Food Services & Drinking Places                              $1,070                $33,946,681       182%      184%         -2%
  Other Services-Except Public Administration                     309                 $9,790,614       167%      172%         -5%
  Total                                                        $5,038               $159,836,063       140%      153%        -13%


  The decrease in capture rate from 2010 to 2014 may be attributed to a disproportionate population change compared
  with the per capita income change. From 2010-2014, Midvale’s population experienced an AAGR of 2.90 percent
  while the per capital income AAGR from 2010-2014 was only 1.76 percent.

  Additionally, a comparison of the decline in capture rates to total market share, or the percent of total taxable sales
  within a community when compared to surrounding communities, illustrates that Midvale has increased its market
  share by .5 percent from 2010, as shown in Table 3.2. While 2013 showed an increase in capture rates when
  compared to the previous year, it declined again in 2014 which may suggest that while the City’s total taxable sales
  have increased since 2010 and there is a net capture of sales within the community, population growth may be


  Page6
APPENDICES                                                                                                                           A- 15
                SALES TAX ANALYSIS
                MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                  JANUARY 2016



        outpacing growth in retail sales. Thus an effort to offer additional retail opportunities may increase the per capital
        sales variables within the community.

        TABLE 3.2 COMPARISON OF MARKET SHARE
                                                        2010          2011        2012          2013              2014       NET CHANGE 2010-2015
        Midvale Capture Rate                            153%          148%        140%          148%              140%
        Market Share
        Midvale                                         10%            10%        10%            11%              11%                 0.5%
        Cottonwood Heights                              8%             7%         7%             8%               7%                 -0.7%
        South Salt Lake                                 21%            21%        21%            21%              21%                 0.0%
        Riverton                                        6%             6%         6%             6%               6%                  0.1%
        Murray                                          29%            30%        30%            30%              30%                 0.9%
        West Jordan                                     22%            22%        22%            22%              22%                -0.9%
        Holladay                                        3%             3%         3%             3%               3%                 -0.1%


        Based on the leakage described above, the City is capturing the majority of its sales tax revenue potential. Given a .5
        percent point of sales tax rate, the City could collect an additional $200,981 in tax revenue as noted in Table 3.3,
        assuming the City could capture 100 percent of retail sales that currently are being “leaked” to other communities.
        TABLE 3.3 ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
        CATEGORY                                                                          LEAKAGE REVENUE                ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
        Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                                                $4,692,705                                     -
        Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                                            $19,823,516                                     -
        Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                                           ($183,409)                                 $917
        Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                                                      ($18,589,968)                               $92,950
        Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                                                   $4,073,590                                     -
        Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                                                        $8,617,125                                     -
        Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers                                    $23,087,206                                     -
        Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                                               $38,382,462                                     -
        Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                                                         $3,281,287                                     -
        Retail-Gasoline Stations                                                                     $3,303,084                                     -
        Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                                                $8,464,824                                     -
        Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                                           $34,248,583                                     -
        Retail-General Merchandise Stores                                                         ($13,981,729)                               $69,909
        Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                                            $8,320,565                                     -
        Non-Store Retailers                                                                        ($1,775,736)                                $8,879
        Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                                           ($4,869,258)                               $24,346
        Accommodation                                                                                ($796,082)                                $3,980
        Food Services & Drinking Places                                                             $33,946,681                                     -
        Other Services-Except Public Administration                                                  $9,790,614                                     -
        Total                                                                                     $159,836,063                               $200,981


        As illustrated in Table 3.4, Midvale’s estimated revenue loss is only slightly higher than South Salt Lake and Murray,
        while the other comparison cities experience a much greater loss.
        TABLE 3.4: COMPARABLE CITY ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
        CITY                                         ESTIMATED LOST REVENUE
        Midvale                                                       $200,981
        Cottonwood Heights                                           $1,806,512
        South Salt Lake                                               $186,728
        Riverton                                                     $1,506,021
        Murray                                                        $184,467
        West Jordan                                                  $1,987,127
        Holladay                                                     $2,094,203




        Page7
A- 16                                                                                   2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
       SALES TAX ANALYSIS
       MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                               JANUARY 2016




  SECTION IV: BUYING POWER ANALYSIS
  As of 2014, Midvale‘s population was 31,725. The population is expected to increase to 33,010 by 2020. The buying
  power analysis considers a range based on the State adjusted per capita spending of $12,457 and the Midvale
  spending per capita of $17,495. Based on the current State per capita spending, the buying power of Midvale
  residents could increase by $2.67 million annually through 2020, due to a population increase of approximately 1,285
  residents. However, the current Midvale spending per capita could generate closer to $3.75 million annually through
  2020 assuming spending patterns within the City remain consistent. This is a helpful predicator for future sales tax
  growth potential in Midvale.

  TABLE 4.1: BUYING POWER ANALYSIS
                                                             STATE PER     BUYING POWER GROWTH       MIDVALE PER     BUYING POWER GROWTH
                                                              CAPITA             2014-2020             CAPITA              2014-2020
  Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                   $1,215                $1,562,152          $1,363                $1,752,295
  Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                  $256                  $329,063            $881                $1,132,288
  Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                 $17                   $21,573             $11                   $14,141
  Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                            $1,789                $2,299,110          $1,203                $1,545,867
  Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                        $276                  $354,848            $404                  $519,905
  Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                             $273                  $351,047            $545                  $700,203
  Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers          $800                $1,028,768          $1,528                $1,964,233
  Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                   $1,314                $1,688,875          $2,524                $3,244,086
  Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                              $157                  $202,419            $261                  $335,373
  Retail-Gasoline Stations                                          $326                  $419,431            $430                  $553,268
  Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                     $545                  $701,182            $812                $1,044,166
  Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                 $324                  $416,897          $1,404                $1,804,609
  Retail-General Merchandise Stores                               $2,007                $2,580,375          $1,567                $2,013,852
  Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                 $540                  $693,720            $802                $1,030,860
  Non-Store Retailers                                               $187                  $239,905            $131                  $167,955
  Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                  $202                  $259,871             $49                   $62,574
  Accommodation                                                     $458                  $589,066            $433                  $556,810
  Food Services & Drinking Places                                 $1,307                $1,680,049          $2,377                $3,055,528
  Other Services-Except Public Administration                       $462                  $594,357            $771                  $991,061
  Total                                                          $12,457               $16,012,709        $17,495                $22,489,074
  Annual                                                                                $2,668,785                                $3,748,179




  Page8
APPENDICES                                                                                                                                     A- 17
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2016




APPENDIX A: SALES LEAKAGE COMPARISONS

2014 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, SOUTH SALT LAKE, RIVERTON COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS                          SOUTH SALT LAKE                              RIVERTON
                         CATEGORY                              PER CAPITA       TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA       TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA       TOTAL       CAPTURE RATE
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                 (1,578)    (53,909,286)            19%       11,985      296,606,119       1473%       (1,084)     (44,940,414)          20%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                (366)    (12,494,577)            11%        1,606       39,752,012        974%          (63)      (2,618,296)          78%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                               (24)       (827,956)            10%           59        1,451,741        587%          (18)        (758,520)           3%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                          (2,697)    (92,136,706)             6%        8,328      206,101,884        748%       (1,775)     (73,571,747)          11%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                      (413)    (14,110,911)             7%        2,597       64,272,255       1410%         (295)     (12,239,983)           4%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                            (95)     (3,243,429)            78%        1,644       40,677,205        938%         (188)      (7,789,767)          39%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers         (77)     (2,643,205)            94%        5,607      138,751,165       1076%           486       20,162,523         154%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                   (428)    (14,606,947)            80%           192       4,751,481        120%         (862)     (35,726,841)          41%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                              403      13,784,959           260%            45       1,109,962        140%         (103)      (4,263,805)          42%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                        (292)     (9,980,858)            44%           160       3,951,116        168%         (226)      (9,386,337)          38%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                   (437)    (14,945,720)            50%         (331)     (8,194,574)         15%         (532)     (22,070,948)          13%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores               (281)     (9,616,752)            46%            78       1,922,924        133%         (287)     (11,907,070)          21%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                             (1,033)    (35,282,716)            68%         (990)    (24,506,772)         31%            33        1,356,777         101%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                               (621)    (21,233,774)            28%        2,696       66,719,800        796%         (487)     (20,199,915)          19%
Non-Store Retailers                                             (112)     (3,812,378)            63%          115         2,851,388       186%          (88)      (3,635,887)          58%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                (263)     (8,977,359)            19%          116         2,860,410       180%         (189)      (7,843,734)          16%
Accommodation                                                   (667)    (22,785,023)             9%        (188)       (4,644,189)        43%         (513)     (21,258,087)           0%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                 (599)    (20,470,032)            71%          788       19,503,917        184%         (452)     (18,748,406)          69%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                     (592)    (20,224,796)            20%        2,354       58,259,870        809%         (102)      (4,244,484)          80%
Total                                                        (10,171)   (347,517,466)            49%       36,859      912,197,712        512%       (6,746)    (279,684,941)          52%




Page9
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2016




2014 MURRAY, WEST JORDAN, HOLLADAY COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                              MURRAY                                   WEST JORDAN                               HOLLADAY
                        CATEGORY                              PER CAPITA      TOTAL       CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA      TOTAL     CAPTURE RATE   PER CAPITA      TOTAL        CAPTURE RATE
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                    1,956      95,512,193          228%         (669)     (74,158,616)       44%       (1,708)     (46,342,537)          15%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                     19        906,508          106%           100       11,087,499      140%         (382)     (10,353,770)          10%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                                 (16)      (773,932)           25%             3          302,624      117%          (27)        (722,295)           5%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                             6,507     317,699,333          389%       (1,549)    (171,760,945)       11%       (2,845)     (77,183,404)           4%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                       1,242       60,636,250         458%         (126)     (13,947,539)       53%         (416)     (11,288,275)           9%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                              598       29,177,069         274%            34        3,819,520      113%         (411)     (11,138,288)          10%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers           910       44,441,694         190%           718       79,651,597      192%       (1,001)     (27,143,122)          25%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                    (257)     (12,529,364)          84%             0              727      100%       (1,312)     (35,591,874)          40%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                               385       18,820,233         295%          (53)      (5,857,576)       66%          (74)      (2,017,664)          72%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                         (137)      (6,680,035)          67%          (81)      (9,028,479)       74%         (423)     (11,473,661)          22%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                    3,166     154,576,956          561%          (43)      (4,775,057)       92%         (728)     (19,737,628)          20%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                  480      23,432,209          218%         (130)     (14,396,034)       59%         (328)      (8,896,308)          39%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                                2,508     122,452,512          199%           131       14,534,699      107%       (3,313)     (89,882,082)           1%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                  318      15,537,061          147%             2          236,477      100%          (64)      (1,735,026)          93%
Non-Store Retailers                                                  33      1,619,739          114%         (101)     (11,164,758)       45%         (237)      (6,420,909)          24%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                   (10)      (503,174)           96%         (116)     (12,889,268)       41%         (141)      (3,837,556)          58%
Accommodation                                                     (336)    (16,406,943)          42%         (417)     (46,245,737)         7%        (449)     (12,178,509)          41%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                     808      39,433,659         149%         (189)     (21,006,390)        85%        (988)     (26,801,968)          55%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                         676      32,997,664         216%         (110)     (12,195,018)        76%        (593)     (16,095,678)          23%
Total                                                           18,851     920,349,632          220%       (2,595)    (287,792,274)        79%    (15,439)     (418,840,554)          25%




Page10
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2016




2013 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, SOUTH SALT LAKE, RIVERTON COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                         Cottonwood Heights                          South Salt Lake                                  Riverton
                                                                  Per
                          Category                               Capita        Total     Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total         Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total       Capture Rate
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                (1,480)     (50,712,788)           21%       10,792      266,962,993          1380%        (1,130)     (46,307,951)          14%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                               (385)     (13,177,607)             9%       1,567        38,772,824           928%           (73)     (3,009,060)          75%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                              (24)        (824,062)             6%           59        1,466,990           618%           (17)       (710,541)            3%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                         (2,540)     (87,039,631)             6%       7,525      186,156,974            718%       (1,664)     (68,176,695)          12%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     (390)     (13,357,012)             5%       2,259        55,882,581         1325%          (272)     (11,144,064)            5%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                              1           41,934          100%        1,870        46,249,066         1052%          (145)      (5,961,983)          52%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers        (14)        (495,102)           99%        4,717      116,693,572            982%           446      18,286,660          154%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                  (431)     (14,757,252)           79%           137        3,398,478           115%         (775)     (31,769,118)          45%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                             446      15,288,267           288%            33         811,635            131%           (99)     (4,044,810)          40%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       (272)      (9,324,893)           46%           147        3,640,433           165%         (213)      (8,730,143)          40%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  (417)     (14,290,262)           52%         (307)      (7,593,392)            21%         (520)     (21,318,961)          14%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores              (305)     (10,446,581)           42%            86        2,124,088           137%         (299)     (12,239,167)          18%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                              (986)     (33,774,402)           69%         (988)     (24,447,766)            31%            75       3,074,037          103%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                              (597)     (20,455,020)           28%        2,547        63,015,445           786%         (441)     (18,056,393)          24%
Non-Store Retailers                                             (38)      (1,312,233)           86%           167        4,127,264           234%           (93)     (3,808,612)          52%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                               (237)      (8,108,775)           16%            74        1,831,133           158%         (161)      (6,596,445)          19%
Accommodation                                                  (636)     (21,805,516)             9%        (183)      (4,516,569)            42%           493      20,205,289          201%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                (484)     (16,601,538)           75%           800       19,791,262           191%       (1,010)     (41,392,358)          27%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                    (566)     (19,396,308)           20%        1,720        42,551,572           640%         (495)     (20,280,505)            0%
Total                                                        (9,354)   (320,548,782)            51%       33,024      816,918,583            484%       (6,393)    (261,980,819)          52%




Page11
           SALES TAX ANALYSIS
           MIDVALE CITY, UT                                                                                                                                                       JANUARY 2016




2013 MURRAY, WEST JORDAN, HOLLADAY COMPARABLE SALES LEAKAGE
                                                                              Murray                                  West Jordan                                    Holladay
                                                               Per
                           Category                           Capita          Total       Capture Rate   Per Capita      Total        Capture Rate   Per Capita       Total       Capture Rate
Wholesale Trade-Durable Goods                                  1,636        79,586,517          211%         (663)     (73,097,742)          42%       (1,695)     (46,045,009)          13%
Wholesale Trade-Nondurable Goods                                       7       363,507          102%           117      12,940,681          146%         (395)     (10,738,947)          10%
Wholesale Trade-Electronic Markets                               (16)        (774,609)           21%            (1)       (135,861)          92%          (12)        (320,061)          56%
Retail-Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers                           6,154       299,269,465          388%       (1,469)    (161,849,701)          11%       (2,674)     (72,669,234)           5%
Retail-Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores                     1,395        67,852,451          532%            (5)       (563,783)          98%         (376)     (10,209,752)          12%
Retail-Electronics & Appliance Stores                            597        29,014,922          273%            30       3,263,360          111%         (405)     (11,001,663)          11%
Retail-Build. Material, Garden Equip. & Supplies Dealers         860        41,825,561          192%           655      72,159,857          190%         (917)     (24,920,954)          26%
Retail-Food & Beverage Stores                                  (236)       (11,482,064)          85%            (4)       (408,551)         100%       (1,263)     (34,329,840)          40%
Retail-Health & Personal Care Stores                             414        20,148,459          322%          (50)      (5,466,427)          66%          (65)      (1,767,027)          74%
Retail-Gasoline Stations                                       (130)        (6,307,824)          67%          (77)      (8,445,351)          75%         (415)     (11,272,419)          21%
Retail-Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores                  3,117       151,582,979          560%          (37)      (4,100,333)          93%         (742)     (20,174,644)          17%
Retail-Sporting Goods, Hobby, Music,& Book Stores                514        24,979,240          225%         (135)     (14,865,331)          58%         (357)      (9,690,718)          34%
Retail-General Merchandise Stores                              2,472       120,217,202          199%           202      22,236,309          110%       (3,274)     (88,960,190)           1%
Retail-Miscellaneous Retail Trade                                280        13,612,531          143%          (28)      (3,054,572)          94%          (13)        (356,651)          98%
Non-Store Retailers                                                    1        47,244          100%          (70)      (7,763,952)          58%         (225)      (6,117,208)          22%
Arts, Entertainment,& Recreation                                  35         1,714,266          116%          (94)     (10,351,664)          45%         (145)      (3,945,933)          51%
Accommodation                                                  (403)       (19,599,541)          27%         (396)     (43,658,432)           7%         (525)     (14,260,479)          28%
Food Services & Drinking Places                                  758        36,869,801          149%         (133)     (14,671,832)          89%       (1,001)     (27,208,223)          51%
Other Services-Except Public Administration                      490        23,825,770          188%         (106)     (11,656,252)          76%         (563)     (15,309,990)          24%
Total                                                         17,946       872,745,875          219%       (2,264)    (249,489,574)          81%     (15,063)     (409,298,942)          24%




Page12
          SALES TAX ANALYSIS
          MIDVALE CITY, UT                                    JANUARY 2016




        Page13
A- 22                          2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
APPENDIX B: TRANSPORTATION ASSETS,
CHALLENGES, and OPPORTUNITIES
Parametrix prepared an existing conditions report of Midvale’s transportation assets, challenges, and op-
portunities.

Midvale lies at the crossroads of many of the Wasatch Front’s current trends: a growing population need-
ing to traverse the valley on its freeways; investment in a new rail network; redevelopment of the old
centers of industry; and the desires to preserve neighborhoods. Consequently, Midvale’s transportation
network has many assets, challenges, and opportunities. These relate to individual transportation modes
as well as to overarching themes and issues and are explored in the following analysis.

Overall themes and issues
The following topics are important to understanding the current state of transportation in Midvale, and ul-
timately determining a plan for transportation that effectively communicates the best paths for the future.
These overall themes and issues include:

Managing the strong effect of the region on transportation is critical to a comprehensive transporta-
tion plan for Midvale. Because of Midvale’s position within the valley, the region has a strong effect on its
transportation. Freeways, streets, and rail lines move people and goods through the city, often from and
to outside locations. Due to this, growth elsewhere creates more trips through Midvale. These major trans-
portation facilities within the city also act as barriers to other forms of transportation, especially local trips.
Much of this infrastructure is north-south based, and there is a need to improve east-west mobility.

Neighborhood livability is closely linked to transportation: Midvale neighborhoods are more livable when
they are linked to amenities such as parks, churches, schools and shopping areas, and are compatible with
vehicle traffic. Important considerations should be to ensure a connected network, to mitigate effects of
traffic, and to provide pedestrian scale street design.

Regional connections are an important consideration for Midvale’s residents and employees. When mak-
ing improvements to these connections it is important to consider all modes and incorporate the plans
of adjacent cities, Midvale residents’ work and recreation destinations, and regional destinations within
Midvale.

Redevelopment areas in Midvale have the opportunity to incorporate wider approaches to transporta-
tion. Bingham Junction, Jordan Bluffs, Fort Union TRAX, and Center Street TRAX are in different stages of
redevelopment, but all have opportunities to focus their transportation networks more around walking,
bicycling and transit.

Strengthening of alternative transportation networks is needed to increase transportation choices for
Midvale’s residents and employees and to allow for better utilization of existing transportation assets.
Strengthening of pedestrian connections around light rail stations and incorporation of BRT into the transit
system are two ways in which this can be achieved.

Midvale’s gateways can be an important way to improve the region-wide impression and awareness of the
city. Improving these gateways will involve a mix of good urban design, traffic management, and placemak-
ing.

Overall network connectivity is important to a healthy transportation system. There are a number of
APPENDICES                                                                                                  A- 23
opportunities within Midvale for improved connectivity including: Addition of Bingham Jct. Blvd extension
through Jordan Bluffs, Connections between Main Street and Bingham Junction, and a Wasatch Street to
Bingham Junction Boulevard extension.

Overall network compatibility is also an important aspect of Midvale’s transportation planning. Different
transportation modes need to occupy a limited space, and transportation planning will need to identify
how these modes are fitting together and how different streets with different emphases complement one
another. For example, it is important to explore the opportunities for parallel facilities, such as 7200 South
and Center Street, to serve complementary purposes.

Working with regional/state agencies will be a continuing aspect of Midvale’s transportation planning. This
work will include communicating the City’s visions for major facilities to other agencies and working to
balance these visions with those of other agencies; working with agencies to manage the effects of region-
al-scale traffic; and, in some cases, working toward jurisdictional transfer.

Vehicular Network
Midvale’s Vehicle Network consists of a hierarchy of classes – Primary, Secondary, and Local streets. The
primary street network, along with freeway access to I-15 and I-215 provides regional access, while the Sec-
ondary and Local Streets provide local connectivity and access. State routes within Midvale include State
Street, 7200 South (west of State Street), and 900 East.

Key Considerations: Challenges/Opportunities

 •      Vehicle travel in Midvale is largely influenced by regional traffic, due to its central location in the val-
        ley and the several regionally significant roadways that run through it. Consequently, regional growth
        affects vehicle travel through Midvale, especially with regard to capacity on its major throughways.
        This includes both the freeways and arterial streets connecting to the freeways. Some of the prob-
        lem areas include where 7200 South connects to I-15 and where surface streets connect to I-215 in
        the Union Park area. The widening project planned for 7200 south west of I-15 can address some of
        these concerns.
 •      Reliance on these major freeways and arterials to move people through Midvale also challenges
        smaller streets. “Bypass” traffic along smaller facilities occurs when congestion issues arise along the
        major throughways.
 •      East-west vehicle mobility along major corridors linking to I-15 and other facilities will continue to be
        one of Midvale’s biggest transportation issues. Traffic projections (see the Future Vehicle Network
        map) forecast continued congestion especially along 7200 South on either side of I-15 even with
        planned improvements.
 •      Access management is another challenge for Midvale. Large increases of through traffic and increas-
        ing numbers of destinations create the need to reduce access points on major streets to reduce the
        likelihood of crashes and congestion.
 •      Widening projects present opportunities to improve street design, potentially allowing for more com-
        plete street design. An example of this may be the planned widening of State Street south of 8000
        South.
 •      Improvements in network connectivity are an opportunity. Insuring future development (Jordan
        Bluffs) has adequate connectivity, and increasing connectivity of the existing network such as be-
        tween Bingham Junction and Main Street.
 •      The General Plan can address traffic flow around the Midvale Family Center, which includes several
        major streets, a freeway entrance, and access into the several shopping centers and office parks in
        the area.



A- 24                                                              2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
 •   The plan can study truck routing through Midvale and ensure it is compatible with the livability of the
     city’s neighborhoods.

Transit
Midvale is currently home to three TRAX stations as well as five bus routes and two flex shuttles. The 7200
South and Center Street TRAX stations are both along the Blue Line which connects downtown Salt Lake
City to Draper. The Bingham Junction station is along the Red Line and connects the University of Utah
to South Jordan. In addition to existing infrastructure there are two planned BRT routes, one along State
Street and another on 7200 South.

Key Considerations: Challenges/Opportunities
 • The three TRAX stations have created a foundation for transit in Midvale. These stations provide the
     city’s residents, employees, and visitors with fast and direct access to the region’s activity centers
     such as Downtown Salt Lake City and the University of Utah.
 • Furthermore, each station is located in an area with significant development/redevelopment poten-
     tial. The Bingham Junction station has become surrounded by housing and employment uses; the
     Center Street station is surrounded by several vacant or underutilized parcels, as is the Fort Union
     station.
 • However, despite the transit service that these three stations provide, most other aspects of transit
     in Midvale suffer, beginning with the lack of connection to the TRAX stations. Pedestrian barriers such
     as properties, fences, and major streets prevent the surrounding areas around the stations from
     being fully accessible.
 • In addition, few transit services connect to the TRAX stations. The flex routes serve the areas immedi-
     ately adjacent, but what is missing is robust services providing the complementary east-west mobility
     to the TRAX stations that can provide other options for much of the regional traffic moving through
     Midvale to access the freeways.
 • Some planned BRT/Enhanced bus projects could provide this need. High-capacity bus projects are
     planned for State Street and 7200 South. How do these two interface with each other and to TRAX
     Stations?
 • The General Plan can assess effectiveness of circulator-type services connecting to LRT stations. The
     shuttle loop is heavily used, how can this success be built upon and replicated?
 • The Bingham Junction development along with potentially the future Jordan Bluffs development
     brings a large amount of existing and potential future employees. This creates the perhaps Mid-
     vale’s largest opportunity for increased transit ridership– the city can explore opportunities for large
     Travel Demand Management (TDM) strategies.
 • Center Street has the opportunity to take on a larger transit role because it traverses more walkable
     areas than other east-west corridors and it passes under I-15 without the congestion related to an
     interchange. In particular it may be worth exploring whether the planned 7200 South BRT route can
     run along Center Street through some of Midvale.
 • Jordan Bluffs – once it develops, how can/should it tie into the transit network?
 • The Midvale Family Center/Union Park area in Cottonwood Heights is designated a “transit hub” in
     the WFRC RTP. This designation would seem to be based on planned BRT/enhanced bus services
     along Fort Union and 1300 East, however the extreme auto-oriented nature of these centers, the way
     heavily trafficked streets prevent pedestrian access, and the overall current lack of transit raise doubt
     about the reality of this hub. The General Plan can explore what this means for the City and the de-
     gree to which these planned transit services and the land use changes necessary to support them are
     realistic.

Bicycle
Midvale has very little existing formal bicycle infrastructure. However, Midvale does have several streets


APPENDICES                                                                                             A- 25
that are compatible with cycling, opportunities for bicycle-supportive neighborhoods, and a stretch of the
Jordan River Parkway. Other assets include existing plans for bicycle improvements from UCATS and the
WFRC RTP.
Key Considerations: Challenges/Opportunities

 •      The biggest challenge for bicycle infrastructure is the major barriers which transect the city at sev-
        eral locations. These barriers, such as I-15 and State Street, do not provide usable corridors and are
        difficult to cross conveniently and safely. Opportunities to overcome these barriers include focusing
        on the several corridors that cross freeways without interchanges such as Center Street; considering
        strategic property easements or acquisitions, and considering strategic pedestrian tunnels and bridg-
        es in order to extend bikeable corridors throughout the city.
 •      As indicated by city staff, additional infrastructure will likely need to be contained within the existing
        right-of-way. Consequently, the City will need to be very strategic about where and how it creates
        future bicycle facilities.
 •      It is important to act on striping projects now before future capacity issues rule them out as possibili-
        ties. One such opportunity is Center Street, which has regional support by being on the UCATS plan.
 •      The UCATS and RTP plans lay out several bike facility routes which have regional support; projects
        from these plans include bike lanes on Center Street and a trail along the mainline TRAX corridor.
 •      Midvale can leverage the TRAX stations to improve overall connection to the greater region for its
        residents, employees and visitors. These stations are well within bicycling distance from anywhere
        within the city, yet access, visibility, safety, and convenience can be improved within these “bike-
        sheds.”
 •      The Jordan River Parkway is a great asset along the western edge of the city. How can access to this
        amenity be increased from the easternmost reaches on the city?
 •      Midvale has many small-scale east-west streets that connect through much of the city and reach
        many of its parks, schools, churches, and commercial centers while avoiding dangerous features
        like freeway interchanges. These include Center Street, 7500 south, and 8000 South. However, good
        north-south corridors are more limited. While some long bikeable corridors that traverse the city
        exist, such as 300 West, others, like Main Street and 700 East, are limited in their segments of bike-
        ability.
 •      Potential additional trails (especially running north-south) could be along the TRAX corridor and the
        Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal. These would prove to be excellent amenities improving connectivity
        and access through the city. The TRAX trail is on the regional plan and so has greater support while
        the canal trail likely has significant barriers involving liability issues with the canal company.

Pedestrian
Midvale has the potential to be a much more walkable city. The city’s walkable historic downtown, its
neighborhoods and their parks and schools and churches, and the infusion of TRAX stations are the assets
upon which the City can build upon for its pedestrian network.

Key Considerations: Challenges/Opportunities

 •      The core of understanding Midvale’s existing and future priority pedestrian network is its pedestrian
        destinations – places where Midvale residents, employees and visitors want to walk to and within.
        Midvale has several of these, primarily mixes of commercial, civic, recreational and educational land
        uses. The city has six major commercial clusters – Main Street, Bingham Junction, Fort Union, Fam-
        ily Center, State/Center and the southern State Street corridor. It has several clusters of parks and
        schools as well.
 •      The three TRAX stations are also critical for pedestrian access for the surrounding area because TRAX
        stations provide pedestrian access to the greater region for employment, school, entertainment, rec-
        reation and other purposes. However, people need to be able to access TRAX stations on foot. This

A- 26                                                            2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
     pedestrian access has two important considerations:
        • First, the streets leading to them need to be connected, maximizing the “walk-shed” around
            them. The connectivity of the walk-sheds around all three stations varies considerably. Center
            Street is accessed by a relatively well-connected network – 78 percent of its potential ½ mile
            walk shed is achieved. However, only 53 percent of the Fort Union and 35 percent of the Bing-
            ham Junction half mile walk sheds are achieved. Efforts should focus on making key connec-
            tions that expand these walk sheds.
        • Second, the design of the streets and intersections themselves need to support walking. Many
            of the streets near Midvale’s TRAX stations do not support pedestrians.
 •   Currently, walking to and among Midvale’s pedestrian destinations is challenged by significant bar-
     riers, which are primarily at-grade and grade-separated roads such as I-15, State Street and 7200
     South. Most of these barriers, apart from 7200 South, run north-south. The existing barriers will not
     likely go away, but improving the pedestrian environment along them and providing more crossing
     opportunities could help abate their magnitude.
 •   It is difficult to walk within most of Midvale’s shopping centers and commercial clusters. Existing
     commercial development is largely designed to accommodate vehicles, such as the Bingham Junction
     development and the development along Fort Union. These centers are at different stages in their
     life cycles and some have the potential to be redeveloped in the near term. These are good oppor-
     tunities to more carefully consider walkability, especially near TRAX stations. Piecemeal and ad-hoc
     development has led to gaps in the sidewalk network that should be addressed.
 •   The Jordan River Parkway provides a walkable spine on the west side of Midvale, and could be better
     connected to the housing and employment along that corridor.
 •   Opportunities exist for trails on the TRAX line and along the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal.
 •   The eastern end of Midvale contains a high number of pedestrian destinations but these destinations
     are largely cut off from surrounding neighborhoods by large streets with high volumes of fast-mov-
     ing traffic.
 •   Main Street is perhaps the single greatest pedestrian asset in Midvale. Currently it is isolated from
     much of the rest of the city by the I-15 and rail barriers. However several opportunities exist to bol-
     ster and connect the Main Street area:
        • Connections to Bingham Junction development and Bingham Junction TRAX, which is within ½
            mile of much of Main Street.
        • Improving the Center Street corridor for pedestrians
        • Extending the pedestrian focus of Main Street south of Center Street
 •   The pedestrian connection between Main Street and Bingham Junction is critical – while Main Street
     has a very walkable urban form, Bingham Junction has become one of the city’s major economic
     engines, which could reinvigorate Main Street. Better pedestrian and urban design connection would
     help this reinvigoration. The following are opportunities for this connection:
 •   The City has proposed extending Tuscany View to the east to come across 700 West and into its Civic
     Center
 •   Overstock will build a walking path along the TRAX line south of the new Overstock campus.
 •   A more direct connection could be made from the Civic Center area through properties to Bingham
     Junction TRAX station.Depending on the land uses pursued in it, the undeveloped Jordan Bluffs area
     could be model for pedestrian oriented design, learning from the issues of the auto-oriented Bing-
     ham Junction area.




APPENDICES                                                                                           A- 27
APPENDIX C: NEIGHBORHOOD ASSESSMENT
To focus on how to make change work at the neighborhood level and to ensure preservation and devel-
opment occurs in the desired amount, location, and type throughout the community, the Planning Team
analyzed neighborhood areas during the Opportunities and Choices Phase of the General Plan Update.

Below is a summary of the Neighborhood Assessments which were presented and analyzed with the pub-
lic at Harvest Days and the neighborhood block parties. Summary of that public event is on page A-39.

What do the Neighborhood Area Assessments Address?
Each neighborhood area assessment includes the following elements:

Area Description
A brief overview of the neighborhood area including key landmarks, major arterials, general land uses, and
look and feel of the community in that particular area.

Influencing Trends
Identified trends that have may have a significant impact on the neighborhood area. Cities and downtowns
have seen a renaissance of investment, influenced by a shift in preferences toward urban living. Reinvest-
ment is occurring at rapid pace around the Salt Lake County region and investments can be witnessed in
Midvale as well. These changing preferences are increasing the influence cities have in the national econo-
my and will have many implications for future planning.

Neighborhood Area Policies
Key policies on which the community should focus to become a complete neighborhood area. These char-
acter-oriented areas contribute to the overall vision and implementation of the General Plan. By focusing
on how to make change work at the neighborhood level, the City will ensure that preservation and devel-
opment occur in the desired amount, location and type throughout the community.

Neighborhood Area Map
This overview map provides context for the neighborhood areas. Made up of multiple unique neighbor-
hoods, the following larger neighborhood areas were developed with the intent to assist in future planning
activities and work to achieve the desired future character of that general area. They do not represent any
political or organizational boundaries.

Opportunity Areas
Redevelopment is likely or is important. These are areas in which substantial change would benefit Mid-
vale City. Your vision and the desired condition for these areas will be detailed in the General Plan.

Transition Areas
Minor-to-moderate changes to current land use are likely to occur, or would be desirable. These areas can
serve as buffers between stability and redevelopment areas.

Stability Areas
The current overall land-use (e.g., commercial, residential, employment, transportation, etc.) is desirable.
Preservation of these areas character and function is the desired future.




A- 28                                                         2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
NEIGHBORHOOD AREAS
OPPORTUNITY MAP
        Character Defining Features - Map Symbols
The Character Defining Features depict the characteristics that define each district and sub-area. Below is a list of symbols and map attributes that are used on the maps. Char-
acteristics that are locational are shown on the map using colored symbols or map attributes. All mapped features are illustrative of the character of an area and do not imply
desired regulatory boundaries or specific locations for certain attributes.



Map Features:                                                                                                                                          Existing Features:

         Parks and Recreation: Desired/              Bike Lanes: Bike lanes desired or                      Stability area (stability areas                Existing Canals
         improved parks and recreation               necessary for connections.                             are clear on the map): The                     Bus Route
         facilities.                                                                                        current overall land-use                       Bus Stop
                                                     Desired Bus Route: Bus routes                          (e.g., commercial, residential,                Light Rail Line (UTA Trax)
         Improved Interconnectivity: An              currently not existing, but are                        employment, transportation,
                                                                                                                                                           TRAX Stop
         area where increased connectiv-             requested by the public                                etc.) is desirable. Preservation
         ity is desired.                                                                                    of these areas character and                   Commuter Rail Line (UTA
                                                                                                            function is the desired future.                Frontrunner)
                                                     Midvale City Proposed Trails:                                                                         Parks
         Local convenience commercial
  LCC                                                Proposed trails outlined in                                                                           Churches with Open
         should be located within sub-ar-                                                                   Redevelopment Area:
                                                     Midvale City’s 2005 “A Plan for                                                                       Space
         ea.                                                                                                Redevelopment is likely or is
                                                     Midvale Trails”.
                                                                                                            important. These are areas in                  Schools with Open Space
         Gateway: A gateway to the city or                                                                  which substantial change would
         sub-area                                                                                           benefit Midvale City. Your vision
                                                                                                            and the desired condition for
         Roadway Corridor Enhancement:                                                                      these areas will be detailed in the
         A roadway corridor that will be                                                                    General Plan.
         characterized in the future by
         enhanced pedestrian and com-
                                                                                                            Transition Area: Minor-to-
         mercial vitality.
                                                                                                            moderate changes to current
                                                                                                            land use are likely to occur, or
         Urban Design Area: An area that
                                                                                                            would be desirable. There areas
         either is or will be the focus of
                                                                                                            can serve as buffers between
         unique urban design
                                                                                                            stability and redevelopment
                                                                                                            areas.
         Civic Investment: Areas where
         greater civic amenities, such as a
         library, are desired.
Neighborhood Areas
Old Town

Area Description:
• The southwest section of Midvale, which is bordered by I-15 to the east and Jordan Bluffs to the west.
• Aging housing stock located in southern area of neighborhood.
• Housing stock a mix of single family homes and apartments.
• Area provides affordable housing options.
• Some deteriorated housing.
• Redevelopment of neighborhood is a high priority.
• Future UFA Fire Station and training center anticipated at prior City Hall location.

Influencing Trends:
• Construction of I-15 separated this neighborhood from the east side of Midvale, so it has limited access
    to east Midvale, including access to Copperview Recreation Center.
• Redevelopment of City Hall and the sought-after redevelopment of Main Street will put pressure on
    this neighborhood to redevelop.
• Nearby TRAX stop.
• Neighboring development of Bingham Junction and expected development of Jordan Bluffs.
• Preforming Arts building draw to area.
• Bingham Junction Boulevard extension and ed-emphasis of Main Street (refocus of local road).

Opportunity Areas:
• Enhance primary corridors so they serve as a regional attraction.
• Diversify land use mix to develop a compact full-service pedestrian scale neighborhood.
• Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system.
• Connect Main Street to Old Town through pathways and urban design techniques.
• Highlight the northern section of the neighborhood as the cultural center of Midvale. If connected to
   Main Street it could serve as a walkable district for events and dinner.
• Redevelop existing multifamily, particularly Tiffany Town Drive/South end of Ivy Drive, into more appro-
   priate higher density housing.
• Redevelop existing storage units between Allen Street and I-15.


Main Street
Area Description:
• The southwestern section of Midvale, which is bordered by I-15 to the east and the southern portion of
   Bingham Junction to the west.
• Includes historic Main Street, the new City Hall, and Senior Center.
• Historic, but stable housing stock.
• Small local retail on Main Street.
• TRAX stop is located just outside of the neighborhood, but access to the stop is an issue.
• Trailer park located in neighborhood.
• Professional offices on Main Street.

Influencing Trends:
• Strategic location – nearby transit stops and next to east-west/north-south freeway connections.
• Redevelopment of City Hall and Senior Center.

A- 32                                                       2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
•   Mobility preferences increasingly value walkable alternatives.
•   New employment and housing center in neighboring Bingham Junction puts pressure on area to be-
    come more walkable and provide more local services.

Opportunity Areas:
• Enhance primary corridors.
• Diversify land use mix to develop a compact full-service pedestrian scale neighborhood.
• Trails and open space connecting area with Bingham Junction and regional Jordan River Trail.
• Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system.
• Potential for unique urban design code on Main Street.
• Connect Main Street to Old Town and Main Street to Bingham Junction through pathways and urban
   design techniques to create a cultural center.

West Gateway
Area Description:
• The western gateway section of Midvale is bordered by I-15 to the east and Bingham Junction to the
   west. 7200 South and the I-15 off ramp bisect the neighborhood, as well as Main Street.
• Primarily light industrial development, including the Salt Lake County Public Works facility. Some small
   commercial development.
• TRAX goes through the middle of the area from north to southwest with no direct stop in the neighbor-
   hood.

Influencing Trends:
• Strategic location – transit stops and next to east-west/north-south freeway connections
• Development of Bingham Junction as employment center and housing center may put pressure on
    area to redevelop.
• Nearby transit stops.

Opportunity Areas:
• Give area a design face-lift. The uses and amount of commercial/light industrial is appropriate, but
   should be higher quality design.
• Traffic solution is desired for 700 West to make access into neighborhood easier.

Bingham Junction
Area Description:
• Bingham Junction is located in the northwest corner of Midvale.
• It is the newest development in Midvale and is characterized by large employers, including CHG, FLS-
   midth, Savage IMC, and Overstock.com, as well as a mix of housing opportunities.
• A TRAX stop is located in the center of the neighborhood, as well as several bus stops.

Influencing Trends:
• Housing pressure from residents seeking walkable, vibrant communities.
• Strategic location along the Wasatch Front.
• Direct access to Trax.
• Several key large employers, but there is also supportive local commercial available.
• Great access to parks and the Jordan River Trail.

Opportunity Areas:
• More pedestrian connections between residential projects, especially near northwest corner, Center,
   and Holden.
• Connect TRAX stop in neighborhood to Main Street.

APPENDICES                                                                                          A- 33
•   Extension of Tuscany View Drive to Holden Street to provide another link between Main Street neigh-
    borhood and Bingham Junction neighborhood

Jordan Bluffs
Area Description:
• Jordan Bluffs is the southwest undeveloped area of Midvale.
• 265 acres bounded by the Jordan River, 7800 South, 700 West and the south City boundary.

Influencing Trends:
• Desire for a similar layout of uses as Bingham Junction.
• Should connect to Old Town and Bingham Junction neighborhoods, either physically (crosswalks) or by
    urban design elements (decorative lighting, matching pavement patterns).

Opportunity Areas:
• The entire area is an opportunity. It is currently vacant with no master plan. This area provides an ideal
   opportunity for high quality development and retail to support Midvale’s tax base.
• Potential redevelopment opportunities along east boundary provide for integration into existing urban
   fabric.

East Gateway
Area Description:
• East Gateway is the section of Midvale east of I-15 on the northern end of Midvale. 7200 South and The
   I-15 on/off ramp is the center of this neighborhood.
• Area is characterized by a mix of commercial, industrial, and a variety of housing options.
• Housing in the area south of 7200 South and East of TRAX is dense, with a large section of apartment
   complexes.

Influencing Trends:
• Additional housing options would be advantageous.
• Parks and recreation amenities are increasingly important.
• Strategic location.

Opportunity Areas:
• Add more single family housing options to accommodate families.
• Strengthen the retail center by diversifying mix and adding more destination and experience shops.
• Enhance 7200 South with urban design and safer pedestrian crossings.
• Provide and implement new bike routes to complete major transportation network.
• Potential for neighborhood serving park at the southern tip of the neighborhood.

Copperview
Area Description:
• Mid-southern neighborhood of Midvale. I-15 to the west, on the border of the city to the south and
   southeast.
• Characterized by stable single family homes, however majority of housing stock is older. There is one
   large section of apartments by Midvale Elementary.
• Southern portion has potential for redevelopment.
• Includes Midvale Elementary School, Copperview Recreation Center, and SLCo Midvale Library.
• Contains older housing stock on the western portion of the neighborhood, from Monroe Street east is
   slightly newer.



A- 34                                                        2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
Influencing Trends:
• Housing is more affordable than other areas of Salt Lake County, but has great character and charm.
• Great access to parks and recreation.
• Area has a slightly below average housing density compared to the rest of Midvale’s residential areas.

Opportunity Areas:
• Signage or way-finding design is needed for the Library.
• Increased connections to the Central neighborhood.
• Opportunity for more neighborhood serving commercial development.
• Better uses and utilization of properties along South side of 8600 South west of Monroe; 8600 South
   not conducive to existing automotive/outdoor storage.

Central
Area Description:
• The Central area is between Copperview and East Gateway neighborhoods.
• Characterized by stable single family homes, however majority of housing stock is older.
• TRAX line runs along the eastern border of the neighborhood with one stop at the south corner of the
   property and at 7730 S (about midway through neighborhood).
• Contains Midvale City Park, Midvale Elementary, and Midvale Middle School.
• Housing stock the oldest in Midvale, with more homes built before 1970 than any other neighborhood.

Influencing Trends:
• TRAX stop in neighborhood provides opportunity for TOD development.
• Redevelopment of the Center Square property may act as a catalyst for the remainder of the area with
    additional daytime population.

Opportunity Areas:
• Potential for mixed use development by central TRAX stops with buffer of lower intensity moving out-
   ward.
• Bike and pedestrian route through area from north to south and east to west.
• Encourage higher quality design of future homes.

North East
Area Description:
• Between East Gateway and North Union, with 7200 South buffer to the south.
• Contains East Midvale Elementary.
• The Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal runs through the eastern side of the neighborhood.
• Primarily single family residential.

Influencing Trends:
• Neighborhood is bordered by State Street and 7200 South. In close proximity to The Shops at Fort
    Union. As these areas are redeveloped and higher quality design is added, this will add increasing
    pressure to live in this area.

Opportunity Areas:
• Neighborhood is considered stable.
• Desire for greater bus service throughout neighborhood.
• Additional redevelopment of residential along 7200 South corridor to office/service commercial.
• Canal access roads used as recreation trails.



APPENDICES                                                                                           A- 35
7200 South
Area Description:
• The neighborhood surrounding 7200 South from just east of State Street to 700 East.
• Neighborhood contains the main corridor of 7200 South. Characterized by a variety of retail on the
   western end adjacent to State Street, transitioning into housing further east and back to retail at 700
   East.
• Neighborhood borders Union Park to the south and includes a UFA Fire Station.
• Housing stock consists of majority single-family homes, with some apartments adjacent to 7200 South,
   condominiums next to Union Park, and newer town home developments.
• Newer office/service commercial along corridor as area transitions to mixed use.

Influencing Trends:
• 7200 South is a major transportation corridor, with potential for transit connections.
• Corridor is heavily traveled by Cottonwood Canyon’s visitors.
• Retail along 7200 South will face pressure from the nearby Shops at Fort Union to redevelop and be-
    come compatible/competitive.
• Corridor is marketed national as the Fort Union Ski Corridor.

Opportunity Areas:
• Redevelopment opportunities exist as the older homes are sold.
• Potential to convert older homes located west of 700 East on the south side of 7200 South into small-
   scale retail
• Desire for bike lanes along 7200 South.
• Potential for greater urban design requirements of new retail to create a distinct character.

East
Area Description:
• Neighborhood is characterized primarily by single family residential and includes Union Park and two
   churches.
• Housing stock is newer and larger than many of the western neighborhoods in the City.
• Hillcrest High is located just outside of neighborhood to the east.
• Majority of residents are within .25 walking distance open space.

Influencing Trends:
• Potential for development pressure if State Street and 7200 South are redeveloped, specifically for
    higher density housing.

Opportunity Areas:
• Desire to keep neighborhood stable.
• Potential for a pedestrian pathway connection through neighborhood.
• Desire for north/south bus connection.
• Redevelopment/transition areas adjacent to State Street corridor.

Midvalley
Area Description:
• Located east of State Street from 7500 South to approximately 8100 South.
• Characterized by residential and retail/industrial development.
• Area includes Cardwell Distributing, Inc.
• Area includes Midvalley School.
• TRAX runs through the southwestern portion of the neighborhood and stop is within walking distance
   for many in the neighborhood.
A- 36                                                       2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
Influencing Trends:
• Established residential areas are stable.
• Redevelopment potential near State Street and west of the TRAX line.
• Access to UTA buses along 7800 South.
• Although the area includes Midvalley School with significant green space, very little of the area is acces-
    sible to a park by walking, specifically the southeast portion is underserved.

Opportunity Areas:
• Potential for additional higher density housing options by TRAX line.
• Desire to see larger-scale commercial/retail development by TRAX line.
• Potential for a trail or walking path along the canal.
• Desire for bike lanes.
• Desire for pocket parks to serve neighborhood.

North Union
Area Description:
• Located in the far north east corner of Midvale.
• A mix of condominiums, apartments, and single family residential.
• Regional commercial center; the Shops at Fort Union are located just south of neighborhood.
• Although no parks are directly inside the neighborhood, all but those in the very northeast corner are
   within a 0.50 mile walking distance to a park.

Influencing Trends:
• Strategic location – next to regional commercial center.
• Stable and established residential area.
• Access to I-215 increases mobility.

Opportunity Areas:
• Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system.
• Support access to educational programs including cultural events.
• Support the presence of library facilities and civic amenities.
• Support for some form of transit along 7200 South.


Ft. Union
Area Description:
• East Midvale between North and South Union.
• A key regional commercial center.
• Includes Walmart, In-N-Out, Babies “R” Us, Michaels, and other regional commercial.
• Very little housing in neighborhood, other than the area south of North Union Avenue and East of 900
   East.

Influencing Trends:
• Strategic location – transit stops and next to east-west/north-south freeway connections.
• Recent economic focus on The Shops at Fort Union. Drawing in more visitors.
• Fort Union Boulevard is frequently traveled by visitors of the Cottonwood Canyons.

Opportunity Areas:
• Diversify land use mix to develop a compact full-service pedestrian scale walkable shopping center to
   include high density residential.

APPENDICES                                                                                            A- 37
•   Provide and implement new bike routes to complete the transportation system.
•   Support for some form of transit along 7200 South.

South Union
•   Area Description:
•   Extends from 7800 South to just north of South Union Avenue and from Union Park Avenue to 900
    East.
•   Characterized by residential development, primarily single family homes.
•   Includes Hillcrest High School, Jordan Valley School, and two churches.
•   Limited retail on 900 East.
•   Strong desire to maintain existing character.
•   Moderately-priced housing stock.

Influencing Trends:
• Mostly older, but stable housing stock.
• Access to UTA buses on 900 East and 1000 East.

Opportunity Areas:
As large lots are sold, they can be converted to single-family developments.
Bike trails on 7800 South and along the canal around Hillcrest High.

State Street
Area Description:
• Regional corridor running north to south through Midvale.
• Characterized by small scale retail development, such as repair shops and fast food. No single family
   residences directly on State Street, but there are some apartment buildings.
• Most retail buildings along State Street are older/aging.

Influencing Trends:
• Strong desire to redevelop State Street to contain higher and better uses, such as mixed-use retail
    developments.
• Commercial exceeds demand which lends to redevelopment as higher density residential (townhomes,
    etc.) supporting remaining commercial.

Opportunity Areas:
• All of State Street is categorized as redevelopable, but two neighboring areas following the TRAX line
   neighboring State Street have high desire for redevelopment.
• Potential for unifying urban-design elements and beautification.




A- 38                                                        2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
 Midvale Block Parties and Harvest Days: Summary
 August 3, 4, 7, 8



 Executive Summary
 The General Plan team attended the Block Parties and Harvest Days
 concert to continue the planning process by assessing neighborhoods
 and what aspects of those neighborhoods should be more thoroughly
 examined during the General Plan Update. Since the Plan relies on
 broad community input to articulate the community’s values, we were
 excited to have this opportunity. Approximately 100 community
 members were engaged in these events.

 The events were publicized online at www.PlanMidvale.com, on the
 City’s social media pages, on the City’s website, through the City
 Newsletter, the Midvale Journal, and through an email notification.
 The feedback from the events is summarized below. The discussion
 will continue online through our virtual workshop survey found on
 www.PlanMidvale.com/survey

 The events presented the concept that Midvale is a series of vibrant
 neighborhood areas all connected to make up Midvale. Existing
 conditions were presented for each neighborhood, along with
 opportunities and influencing trends. Maps showing these factors for
 each neighborhood were also presented. These were derived from
 ideas we have heard from the public so far and the consultant’s
 analysis of existing conditions.

 Participants were asked to evaluate their neighborhood areas; what
 currently exists, what the issues and opportunities are; and the
 desired future character of that particular neighborhood. Participants
 were also invited to give feedback on Midvale City as a whole.
 Formatting the discussion around neighborhood areas will contribute
 to the overall implementation of the General Plan by ensuring that
 preservation and development occur in the desired amount, location
 and type throughout the community.

 All meeting materials can be viewed at
 http://www.PlanMidvale.com/documents




                                                                          1|Page

APPENDICES                                                                         A- 39
  WHAT NEIGHBORHOODS DID WE VISIT AT THE BLOCK PARTIES?




  WHO DID WE REACH AT HARVEST DAYS?
  We set up on Saturday, August 8th at the Harvest Days concert at the City Park. We set up at 5:00 pm,
  about an hour in prior to the concert and stayed until 9:00 pm. The booth was strategically located on
  the route to the food trucks, so we were able to engage participants not only before the show, but also
  during the show as they moved between the concert venue and the food truck area. We weren’t able to
  get attendees to sign in at the table, but spoke with approximately 30 residents from the Old Town,
  Copperview, Bingham Junction, Central and East Gateway neighborhoods. Common themes of the
  conversations included a desire for stricter code enforcement and/or better maintenance of rental
  properties; expanded transit hours; excitement for the potential for renovation of the Main Street area;
  desire for more parks and recreation opportunities on the west side of State Street; and improved
  pedestrian connectivity across major streets like Wasatch Street (8000 South).




  NEIGHBORHOODS


                                                                                              2|Page

A- 40                                                          2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
  Midvale is made up of a series of connected neighborhood areas. These neighborhood areas provide
  housing, places to be entertained, goods and services, access to transportation, and amenities to have
  fun and learn. Midvale’s neighborhood areas have three general types of use that have similar attributes
  among the neighborhoods- residential, retail, and employment. Although all neighborhood areas
  provide a mix of uses, each has a specific use emphasis and individual character.

  A BRIEF SUMMARY OF RESPONSES BY NEIGHBORHOOD AREA IS PROVIDED
  BELOW:

  City Wide Comments
  Comments on city-wide planning focused on a few major themes:

         Traffic cutting through neighborhood roads to avoid major corridors. This was mentioned
          frequently in the neighborhoods adjacent to State Street and 7200 South, but was also
          mentioned in Old Town.
         Strong support for a community pool.
         Residents are very happy with the new City-wide street lights.
         Concern that Midvale is losing its history. This conversation focused on the potential of Main
          Street and how vibrant it once was, the loss of Dahl Field, Midvale Elementary and Middle
          School, and also the number of young families moving in.
         Make Utopia more available.
         Limit the number of tattoo parlors, pawn shops, and quick loan businesses.
         Feedback was mixed on multi-family housing. Although some supported the City’s efforts, many
          said that we have enough and should focus on attracting home owners now.
         The City Park was complimented many times. Residents were also excited about the splash pad.
         Support for a City sponsored xeriscaping program.
         Code enforcement was discussed at several block parties, specifically in regard to vacation
          rentals. Code enforcement was also praised in many instances.

  Old Town
  Residents in Old Town focused their comments on improving Main Street. Many of the residents
  remember Main Street when it was the central gathering spot in Midvale and see the potential for it to
  become vibrant again. There was general support for incorporating urban design elements into the Old
  Town neighborhood to connect it to Main Street, such as street lighting or crosswalk design. They also
  see the north portion of the Old Town area as in transition, with some buildings ready for reuse or a
  “face lift”. There was support for a redevelopment of the apartments at the south end of the
  neighborhood to transition to “something better”. Jordan Bluffs was mentioned as an opportunity, as
  residents are excited to see something happen to the land and are curious when it will happen. Overall,
  feedback from this neighborhood was almost universally positive regarding City services.

  Main Street
  Several ideas were brought up in reference to Main Street. Nearly every resident that mentioned Main
  Street highlight a desire to make it a vibrant center for Midvale. Several ideas where brought up on how



                                                                                               3|Page


APPENDICES                                                                                                   A- 41
   to make this happen. One was to make it part of an historic district, so that business owners can qualify
   for funding to help with façade improvements. Other ideas included bringing in a popular anchor
   restaurant that the other businesses can build on, thinning out or pruning street trees so that you can
   better see the existing businesses, and reviving the drug store. Above all, comments centered on
   building on what is already there and not destroying the character of the street.

   Central
   The central neighborhood residents expressed similar comments in relation to the amount of rentals
   and multifamily housing in the area. Although not generally supporting of additional multi-family
   housing in the transition area near the Trax station, residents expressed desire for local convenience
   commercial, such as a grocery store or pharmacy, if additional multi-family units are built. They were
   also concerned with traffic on neighborhood streets.

   Copperview
   Residents feel that there is enough multifamily housing in their neighborhood and in Midvale generally.
   Participants would like to see a walking path/trail with lights on it for night safety. A community pool, a
   grocery store, and pharmacy are also desired. Residents would also feel the area should be more
   walkable, including more trails as well as services within walking distance (grocery stores, etc.). A
   community garden in the transition area was also suggested.

   North East
   The biggest concern is traffic, especially along 7200 South to Fort Union. They would like to see the
   pathway along the canal upgraded—not by much, since they like that it still feels “wild”. Residents are
   generally not supportive of a bus route through the neighborhood. Reaction to a conceptual bike route
   was mixed. Some were very supportive, while others didn’t see the point. Another idea proposed was a
   pocket park at 300 East and 6790 South. A major discussion point was a need for uniform sidewalk, curb,
   and gutter in the neighborhood.

   7200 South
   Generally, participants expressed satisfaction with the current state of 7200 South. They would like to
   see a transition from chain fast food to more local establishments, but they are happy with the mix of
   uses. If more development is to come in, it should be professional offices. Traffic is of concern, but
   participants felt that adding more retail along 7200 South will only make the situation worse. They
   would like nothing approved over two stories.

   Midvalley
   Residents would like to see more owners vs. renters. They believe that Midvale has enough renters and
   that owners are better for the City overall (care about their neighborhood, better for schools, etc.). They
   are concerned about State Street; would like “No Parking” signs on State Street in front of the pawn
   shop, and feel that there are too many tattoo parlors. Residents also expressed desire for a centrally
   located recreation center with a pool. Other ideas presented were bike lanes on 700 East/900 East and
   along Center Street. Residents were also supportive of redevelopment of the industrial properties
   between the Trax line and State Street. Ideas for uses included a swimming pool, community garden,
   and grocery store.


                                                                                                   4|Page


A- 42                                                             2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
  State Street
  As a central feature of Midvale, State Street was a focus of several conversations at the neighborhood
  block parties, specifically at the Midvalley, Copperview, and Central parties. Ideas expressed centered on
  the potential for State Street to become a lively and attractive street. Participants expressed a strong
  desire to limit the number of tattoo parlors, quick loan establishments, and fast-food vendors. They are
  seeking quality, local development with a mixed-use component. Murray City’s new development (hotel
  with retail on bottom) on State Street was referred to as a good example.

  Bingham Junction
  Although this neighborhood was not visited during the events, several participants commented on how
  nice the area has become. They like the retail options available and are impressed with the quality of
  design of the housing. Bingham Junction residents at the Harvest Days concert were pleased with their
  neighborhood and, when prompted, expressed interest in better connectivity to, and renovation of,
  Main Street.

  Jordan Bluffs
  Several participants expressed ideas for Jordan Bluffs. It is desired that it has a strong recreation
  component, such as a large park, golf course, or even a water park was mentioned. Support for
  improvement of the Jordan River parkway was also expressed.

  East Midvale
  *Not enough information at this time.

  East Gateway
  *Not enough feedback at this time.

  West Gateway
  *Not enough feedback at this time.

  North Union
  *Not enough feedback at this time.

  Fort Union
  *Not enough feedback at this time.

  South Union
  *Not enough feedback at this time.




                                                                                                   5|Page


APPENDICES                                                                                                 A- 43
A- 44   2016 MIDVALE CITY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
