                                    Riverton city
Who is filling out this report?
Lisa Halversen
Planner
lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov
801 208 3149

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://rivertoncity0.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/ER5dgkoy8PtNldurQ1pLh_0BJg_jAWQbux9Cag1JTsT
Puw?e=5FbpTt


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://cms8.revize.com/rivertonut/departments/planning/documents/riverton-city-annual-
moderate-income-housing-plan-2024.pdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           728
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://www.rivertonutah.gov/planning/maps.php

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
Rezone - Priority Builders, approved by CC 6.3.25, Text Amendment - Multi-Family Reduced
Parcel Size Requirement approved by CC 4.15.25.

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
425




                                                                                                729
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Our entitled unit count was much higher last year, we had some developers of big projects pull
their permits and begin to build in earnest this year.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
We have a high-density residential development in our last, large undeveloped area of the city.
It is starting to get built out and this year we are seeing a large increase in homes finishing the
construction process.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
64




                                                                                                 730
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
8

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
9


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
15 total ADU applications came into Riverton during this period. Seven of these did not need a
building permit as they were already existing, unpermitted units that we were able to get into
compliance and they received an ADU permit to rent out.




                                                                                             731
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
F
G

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
1. Evaluate and modify code for effectiveness. (Ongoing goal)2. Establish consistent tracking
practices for ADUs. (Completed in 2023, ongoing after implementing quarterly tracking
process)3. Monitor the progress and impacts of completed actions. (Ongoing goal)

F
1. Identify areas within Riverton where diverse housing types for moderate-income and full life-
cycle housing are appropriate. (Ongoing goal)2. Monitor progress and impacts of completed
actions. (Ongoing goal)3. Coordinate development within the 12600 South RDA with
stakeholders, including Salt Lake County (golf course redevelopment). (2023 goal, still taking
shape)4. Amend Mountain View Village development agreement to allow for additional
densities. (Completed previously, amended again in 2025)

G
1. Identify areas for higher density and moderate-income housing along major transit corridors.
(Ongoing goal)2. Review and update Redwood Road corridor land use designations. (2023
goal, new developments)3. Review and update 12600 South corridor land use designations.
(2024 goal, new developments)4. Monitor progress and impacts of completed actions. (Ongoing
goal)




                                                                                               732
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
1. Riverton City was able to reduce regulations related to ADU's by no longer requiring a paved
or hard surface path from the parking area to the front door of an ADU. This change took place
in March of 2025 and was a result of staff evaluation to see how and where regulations can be
reduced. This action required no council involvement or land use decision.2. Riverton City
planning department now tracks progress of ADU's in the construction phase. Consistent
quarterly updates give us better information about the challenges faced by residents and allow
the planning and building departments to coordinate, thus making the ADU process more
efficient.3. We monitor the progress and impact of our actions to promote ADU's in Riverton
over the past 5 years by evaluating the data year over year. We noticed that following the
change to allow detached ADU's our ADU numbers doubled in the following years and half of
the product were detached units. In 2024 we expanded our allowed ADU product to include
shipping containers. Our data also shows that about half of our ADU applications are now
coming from previously unpermitted units.

F
1. There are three areas in Riverton where new rezones have been approved after previous
rezones for moderate-income and full life-cycle housing set a precedent. One rezone doubled
the previous number of townhomes in an area (Sycamore Glen Townhomes Ph 2), one rezone
doubled the number of single-family homes in a subdivision by rezoning to smaller lots (Myers
Park Ph 2) and the third added a new phase of senior housing (Homestead Ph 2).2. To monitor
progress and impacts of completed actions, planning staff did a study of residential building
permits issued over the past year. We issued 95 single-family residence permits, and we found
that 92% of all our single-family permits were issued to homes in higher-density developments
on small lots.3. Meetings have taken place, most recently in June 2025, between stakeholders
in the 12600 South RDA. A developer is continuing to acquire properties in the area in
preparation for a large project.4. Riverton City amended the Mountain View Village development
agreement for the second time, which resulted in ten more residential units and less office/retail
space. (SALT Amendment)

G
1. The Mountain View Corridor area is home to Riverton's highest-density residential
developments and the units are being completed at a rapid pace. The SLR zoning, our most
flexible and highest-density zoning, has given developers the best opportunity to offer an more
affordable housing product. Edge Homes has been entitled to build just under 3500 residential
units in this zone. This zoning and associated development (Mountain Ridge)was approved in a
new CSP/BSP/DP format toward the end of 2020, and each year since that time more
final/detail plans of additional phases of the development are approved by the Planning
Commission. During this reporting year Phases 26 and 27 were approved as final plans, and




                                                                                               733
Phase 28 is almost ready. This zone and associated development is located in Riverton's main
transit investment corridor near 13400 South, Bangerter Highway and the Mountain View
Corridor.2. Property owners along the Riverton Redwood Road transit investment corridor have
begun applying for and getting approval for higher-density rezones. Our upcoming General Plan
and Transportation Plan update in 2025 will likely allow for multi-family and higher-density
single-family zoning. Significant progress has been made in obtaining council support for this
prospect.3. The 12600 South transit investment corridor land use designations will likely change
to higher-density residential with the 2025 General Plan and Transportation Plan update. Many
of the stakeholders and golf course authorities have met in 2025 to secure rights-of-way and
consolidate properties to purchase. This new RDA project will include an affordable-housing
component.4. Preparations are ongoing for a General Plan and a Transportation Plan update to
be completed in late 2025. Staff are in discussions with UDOT and UTA regarding future transit
and right-of-way needs.




4.      Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
1. Ordinance to allow shipping containers to be used as ADU's (Ordinance 24-22 amending
Riverton City Code section 18.225 passed 11-12-24.)2. Land use decisions from 2023 to allow
an increase in lot coverage to 40% ( 23-5005)continues to support ADU creation on smaller lots
than previously allowed.

F
1. a. Sycamore Glen South Rezone, 1-07-25, (24-4008), rezoned one acre at 11851 South
Redwood Rd. from RR-22 (.5-acre lot size) to RM-14-SD (residential medium-density, 14 units
per acre) resulting in ten new townhomes directly south of 10 previously approved townhomes.
b. Myers Park Rezone, 7-16-24, (24-4002), rezoned 5.08-acres at 2400 West 11800 South from
R-3 (minimum 14,000 sf lots) to R-4-SD (minimum 10,000 sf lots)resulting in 15 new homes.
While technically just outside the reporting dates, this rezone was in process and thus not
included in last year's report. c. Homestead Ph 2 Rezone, 5-21-24, (24-4001), rezoned 1.52-
acres at 12701 South 3600 West from RR-22 (.5-acre minimum lot size) to RM-6 (residential
medium-density, 6 units per acre) resulting in 9 new senior housing units. While technically just
outside the reporting parameters, all building permits have been issued and this project doubles
the amount of senior-housing in the project area. d. The Priority Builders Rezone (25-
4004)was approved 6-3-25. This rezoned 4.28-acres near the northwest corner of 11800 South
and Redwood Rd. to RM-8 (residential medium-density, 8 units per acre)to allow townhomes to
be built in a neighborhood that has some higher-density projects completed.2. After monitoring
progress and impacts of previous actions, on 4-15-25 city council amended the Riverton City
Code (Ordinance 25-13)to reduce the minimum parcel size required for a multi-family
development. The city is running out of large, undeveloped parcels and receiving inquiries about




                                                                                              734
doing multi-family housing as infill projects. This action will result in higher densities throughout
the city and not only in our few remaining large undeveloped parcels.3. No land use decision
has taken place regarding the 12600 South RDA. The developer is acquiring properties,
discussions regarding specific proposals are ongoing with the development team.4. The city
council approved an amendent to the Mountain View Village development agreement (SALT
Amendment) on 3-18-25 which replaced previously planned office/retail space in the SALT
apartments with ten additional residential units.

G
1. a. Detail Plan approval for Mountain Ridge Phase 26 A&B (93 condos) - 5.8.25 (25-8001) b.
Detail Plan approval for Mountain Ridge Phase 27 (41 mixed residential) - 6.12.25 (25-8003)2.
a. Sycamore Glen South Rezone, approved 1.07.25 (24-4008)rezoned 1.04-acres at 11851 S.
Redwood Road from RR-22 (minimum .5-acre lots, estate-density) to RM-14-SD (14 units per
acre, medium-density) to construct 10 townhomes. b. Priority Builders Rezone, approved
6.03.25 (25-4004)rezoned 4.28-acres near the northwest corner of 11800 South and Redwood
Rd. to RM-8 (residential medium-density, 8 units per acre)to allow townhomes to be built in this
neighborhood.3. No land use decisions have been finalized for the 12600 South transit
investment corridor/RDA in the 2024-25 reporting year. Meetings have been held and properties
are being consolidated in anticipation of a large RDA project with higher-density residential and
an affordable housing component.4. An RFP was issued in preparation for Riverton's General
Plan and Transportation Plan update late in 2025.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
The barriers facing ADU creation are all borne by the homeowner. The main barriers include
financing the construction of an additional dwelling and the amount of time it is under
construction before it can be rented.

F
Projects tend to take more time to come to fruition than hoped for a variety of reasons. The
starting point for additional housing usually begins with an established neighborhood. It can take
more time than expected for residents and their representatives to come to see the benefits
from more housing product choices in their own neighborhoods.

G
Municipal government usually moves at a slower pace than expected, there are many
stakeholders and moving parts that must coordinate, discuss, and come to an agreement on




                                                                                                   735
any proposed solution to an issue. Even something that sounds as simple as a General Plan
update requires years of discussions and listening.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
The number of ADU applications continues to show that there is a high level of interest among
Riverton homeowners. We are seeing numbers of applications remain at the same historic high
levels for three years in a row.

F
The market has not responded in a way that produces affordable housing. With land prices
continually increasing, developers can make more money the longer they hold onto their land
purchases, and build the biggest, nicest homes they can on that land. The huge increases in
every component of a home are pricing our young people and those on reduced AMI's out of the
housing market.

G
Last year our count of entitled units which had not pulled a building permit was 3150. This year
it is 425. In one year our city has added/is adding 2700 residential units that were not available
a year ago. 92% of single-family building permits issued in the reporting period were to homes
in a new, higher-density development. We feel that we have made outstanding progress when
you look from the vantage point of five years ago when this housing emphasis began.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

F

G


       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

F

G




                                                                                                736
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Reporting technical assistance,Education on partnering with nonprofit organizations or housing
authorities


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
ADU's seem to be a popular way to increase densities while retaining the character of a
neighborhood. They could also be made less cost-prohibitive for the property owner by offering
a state subsidy, such as a zero- or -low interest loan to an owner who agrees to rent their unit at
a lower than market rate.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   737
