> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-10-06
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday October 6, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Salt Lake City Emergency 
Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, Chris 
Wharton, Daniel Dugan, Darin Mano, James Rogers, and Analia 
Valdemoros. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; David Litvack, Mayor’s Senior Advisor; Ben 
Kolendar, Economic Development Deputy Director; Katia Pace, 
Principal Planner; Michaela Oktay, Deputy Planning Director; 
Russell Weeks, Council Senior Advisor; David Salazar, Human 
Resource Program Manager; Carolyn Campbell, Human Resource Program 
Manager; Lehua Weaver, Associate Council Deputy Director; Laura 
Briefer, Public Utilities Director; Lorna Vogt, Public Services 
Director; Danny Walz, Redevelopment Agency Chief Operating 
Officer; Blake Thomas, Director of Community & Neighborhoods; JP 
Goates, Housing & Neighborhood Development Policy & Program 
Manager; Daniel Rip, Housing and Neighborhood Development Policy 
& Program Manager; Nick Tarbet, Council Senior Public Policy 
Analyst; Nick Norris, Planning Director; Daniel Echeverria, Senior 
Planner; Julianne Sabula, Transportation Transit Program Manager; 
Jonathan Larsen, Transportation Director; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s 
Chief Administrative Officer; Robert Nutzman, Council 
Administrative Assistant; Amanda Lau, Council Public Engagement & 
Communications Specialist; Benjamin Luedtke, Council Policy 
Analyst; and DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City Recorder. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:04 p.m. 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1.2:05:56 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March Earthquake, Recent Protests, and Windstorm. The Council will 
receive an update from the Administration about the Mayor’s 
emergency declarations relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the 
March 18th earthquake in the Salt Lake Valley, and the September 
8th windstorm. As part of the update, the Council may discuss 
public health and other public safety, policy and budget issues

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 2 
stemming from the emergency declarations. The Council may also 
receive information or updates from organizations or experts 
related to the emergency responses and coordination, including but 
not limited to earthquake damage to the City, the functioning of 
the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), City response and aid, and 
the status of City buildings. 
 
 Mayor Mendenhall and Rachel Otto provided updates/briefed the 
Council regarding COVID-19 and windstorm, including: 
• City moving back into Orange phase (after three highest positive 
test case days in local pandemic history) 
• 8.5% positivity rate averaged in the last seven days (goal was 
less than 5%) 
• 45 City Police officers were quarantined/in isolation due to 
exposure 
• Coordination with local businesses/public health officials to 
re-evaluate moderate-risk restrictions 
• Windstorm cleanup moving ahead and currently on schedule 
• Coordination with a variety of different programs to keep wood 
waste out of landfills 
 
 #2.2:09:59 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness. The Council will hear updates 
and discuss issues pertaining to relieving the condition of people 
experiencing homelessness in neighborhoods throughout Salt Lake 
City. 
 Rachel Otto briefed the Council regarding: 
• Continuation of the Community Commitment Program (Phase II 
began yesterday – involving intensive focused outreach located 
in the 700 South area/Geraldine E. King Women’s Resource Center, 
15 individuals engaged during outreach, six individuals 
accepting services with nine declining services) 
• Website being made available today by Housing and Neighborhood 
Development (HAND), explaining various phases of Community 
Commitment Program, available resources, addressing frequently 
asked questions, etc. 
 
 #3.2:13:21 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing (REP). The Council will hold a discussion about recent 
efforts on various projects City staff are working on related to 
racial equity and policing in the City. The conversation may 
include issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 3 
in relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
• An update or report on the newly created Commission on 
Racial Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 
 David Litvack briefed the Council regarding: 
• Background on selection process of facilitators (Langdon Group 
being firm selected) 
• Proposed budget for REP Commission Members & Facilitators 
(funding for the facilitator positions not to exceed $218,940 
for one year, funding/honorarium of $2,500 for core 
commissioners, $2,000 for other members, and $1,500 for two 
youth commission members). 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for funding the REP facilitator positions 
(expecting a future budget amendment and support for that budget 
amendment). Council Members Rogers, Johnston, Wharton, Fowler, 
Mano, and Dugan were in favor. Councilmember Valdemoros was absent 
for the vote. 
 
 4:09:51 PM Katherine Lewis and Benjamin Luedtke briefed the 
Council regarding donation ordinance guidelines/restrictions, 
donation of military surplus (as per current draft ordinance), and 
examples of equipment donated to other jurisdictions (grenade 
launchers, military assault rifles, combat Humvees with top 
mounted firearms). 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for creating a process to negotiate with 
the Administration regarding the donation of certain military 
surplus property (through added/amended language regarding 
donation policy in an ordinance). All Council Members were in 
favor. 
 
 Mr. Luedtke inquired on the upcoming timeline: if the Council 
would be ready to vote this evening at the formal meeting or moving 
the vote to the next formal meeting. Cindy Gust-Jenson recommended 
an added motion to allow the Council to adopt the ordinance tonight 
with the condition the Attorney’s office add the requested amended 
language. Mr. Luedtke confirmed this could be added for the formal 
meeting tonight. Councilmember Wharton agreed to Ms. Gust-Jenson’s 
recommendation.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 4 
 #4. 2:21:53 PM Ordinance: Fleet Block Zoning Amendments (300 and 400 West and between 800 and 900 South). The Council will be 
briefed about a proposal to create a new land use zone titled Form-
Based Urban Neighborhood 3 (FB-UN3) and rezone the 10-acre City 
block known as the Fleet Block (located between 300 and 400 West 
and between 800 and 900 South) from Public Land (PL) and General 
Commercial (CG) to FB-UN3. The area was previously used by the 
City for a fleet maintenance facility that has since been 
relocated. Form-Based code focuses on the form and appearance of 
buildings. It also has more regulations that control those aspects 
of development than traditional zones. The proposal would apply 
regulations to future developments such as building design, 
height, bulk, use, and other development standards and land uses. 
The regulations are intended to support the block’s redevelopment. 
In addition to the zoning amendments, the Council will also hear 
updates from City departments about the work they have done related 
to the redevelopment of this City-owned property. Petition No. 
PLNPCM2019-00277. View Attachments 
 Mayor Mendenhall, Nick Tarbet, Nick Norris, and Daniel Echeverria briefed the Council with attachments. Discussion was 
held regarding history of the fleet block, considerations for fleet 
block and nearby/surrounding area, overview of current zoning, 
master plan coordination, form-based code proposal (key components 
including: midrise heights, design controls, broad mix of uses, 
expandable to Granary area), building form types and allowances 
(row house/vertical mixed use, multi-family, storefront), design 
standards, possible land uses, parking/streetscape/sign 
requirements, additional requirements/components 
(retail/restaurant/art galleries along 900 South sidewalks, 
excluding residential units and clarifications to code to reduce 
conflicts), and public process (outreach, open house, public 
comments, and public hearings). 
 
 Further discussion included environmental impacts/concerns, 
requiring certain commercial uses on ground level throughout the 
block, and concerns regarding developing lot lacking open/green 
space. 
 
 Councilmember Valdemoros joined the meeting at 3:00 p.m. 
 Daniel Rip provided a high-level summary of the Urban Design 
Associates Feasibility Study, including: study completed late 
2018, concluding presentation was made to the City Council early 
2019 (findings were reviewed), process included heavy public

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 5 
engagement with several community engagement meetings, findings 
included recommendations from consultants for the City to include 
dividing the site into three areas and develop using a phased 
approach, recommended next steps at the time included: begin the 
re-zone process, determine a sequence for public infrastructure 
improvements around the fleet block (new roads, public 
access/transportation, upgrades to utilities/underground utility 
lines), determine a path for environmental remediation, and 
publish from a request for interest and/or qualification from 
developers (important for the City to see what interest there was 
in the development community for pursuing this project). 
 
 JP Goates provided information regarding environmental 
considerations, including: constraints due to previous industrial 
use (for over 100 years), mitigation of existing soil contaminants 
(petroleum, lead, arsenic, etc.), Phase II assessment was 
conducted in late 2017 detailing cleanup costs (ranging from 
$600,000 for commercial screening, time frame varying from eight 
months to two years), and determining factors for level of cleanup 
dependent on future use of the property/screening levels (EPA 
standards for commercial vs. residential uses). 
 
 Councilmember Johnston requested more detailed information 
regarding environmental cleanup costs if the block became a public 
park. Mr. Goates said he would provide more information to the 
Council. 
 
 Jonathan Larsen provided the following information: potential 
changes to street frontage on fleet block depended on what was 
developed, largest investment in the area being 400 West light 
rail connection (benefitting the neighborhood/City, relieving 
pressure off main TRAX line), light rail study being conducted by 
Utah Transit Authority (UTA), additional City-run Transportation 
projects being on a much shorter time frame: 900 South 
reconstruction, 9-Line trail completion, 300 West reconstruction, 
the already completed Route 9 service (funded by Funding Our 
Future), and the Grain Loop project (900 South/500 West) with 
plans to address the railroad tracks in the area (being a major 
barrier heading west). 
 
 Danny Walz and Ben Kolendar provided information regarding 
RDA involvement in the western downtown area (including Fleet 
Block) including: consideration of one or more potential project 
areas, the existing RDA project area of the Granary District 
(expiring in 2023), existing project area of the Depot District

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 6 
(expiring in 2022), looking at 400 South/400 West areas as they 
relate to potential transit expansion/improvements (including 
consideration of the Grand Boulevards – 500/600 South), financial 
analysis being conducted for land use, base taxable values for the 
areas, planned projects for the neighborhood, property value 
increases (re-zoning efforts playing a role in economic growth 
potential), inclusion of an evaluation of areas from a community 
impact/neighborhood vibrancy prospective (prioritizing public 
benefits including affordable housing, sustainable development, 
walkability, open-space, adaptive reuse, and historic 
preservation), crucial portion of analysis for new project areas 
was determining appetite for additional taxing entities to 
participate (to what extent a new project area could align with 
their goals), current discussions/negotiations with Salt Lake City 
School District and Salt Lake County for approval of 9-Line & State 
Street project areas, and analysis results informing discussions 
with the Administration regarding priorities/next steps. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston expressed concern regarding investing 
time/staff resources/money for new project areas in that district. 
Mr. Kolendar said the struggle in planning new project areas was 
the balancing of either shaping development that was happening now 
(in the vision/values of the City) or have development build 
development (may not fit City values, becomes more unorganized). 
Mr. Walz added there were public benefits such as affordable 
housing, infrastructure improvements, and encouraging transit to 
be built sooner to benefit the area (as well as the City and County 
as a whole). 
 
 Blake Thomas thanked the Council for utilizing their various 
backgrounds to provide recommendations to the FBUN-3 zone and 
mentioned that an update on the 2018 study (funded through Housing 
& Neighborhood Development – HAND) was requested (noting the study 
was now outdated), feedback from the Council regarding open-space 
for the Fleet Block was being heard, and determining a zoning 
change that all departments could agree on was top priority. 
 
 Mayor Mendenhall said that open space was very important to 
her in the development of the Fleet Block and she appreciated the 
creativity considerations of the Planning Department and others. 
She said open-space had water-quality benefits, intersectional 
reasons in the decision-making process, and for the future public 
benefit that brings open-space up on the list of priorities.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 7 
 Laura Briefer provided information on the following: higher-
capacity water/waste water lines existed in the Fleet Block area, 
however; capacity upgrades may be needed if larger water users 
came in to the development (industrial, whole food processing, 
breweries, beverage manufacturing, etc.), storm water 
considerations included the new MS4 Permit (State issued – 
authorizes City to discharge storm-water collected by storm sewer 
systems to waters of the United States) requiring on-site retention 
of water, and any changes with respect to pedestrian activity in 
the area/changes to the flow of traffic would trigger consideration 
of enhanced lighting areas (included in the updated Street Lighting 
Master Plan forthcoming to the Council). 
 
 Lorna Vogt said a needs assessment was performed in 2018-2019 
and was made available to the Council, the Fleet Block resided in 
the Central Planning Area for public lands and was identified as 
the highest need (currently lowest level of service in the City), 
highest level of anticipated growth/visitation/future needs 
(measured by the number of school aged children/youth, seniors, 
density, and income), the block had a significant lack of trees 
and area for other open spaces that were publicly accessible, the 
addition of green spaces/plazas/squares were a way to support 
livability and economic development in addition to their many 
social/environmental factors, considerations for 
preserving/incorporating into a public plaza/square (due to the 
historic/current nature of the Fleet Block itself – specifically 
the murals), and research was being conducted for resources on how 
to use public spaces to connect people across 
demographics/economic levels with some model cities finding 
measurable impacts in voting participation & civic engagements 
(due to access to available public space). 
 
 Councilmember Fowler said she would be interested in the 
findings of the research from Ms. Vogt and her team and requested 
a small group meeting to discuss. 
 
 #5. 3:44:18 PM Tentative Break 
 
 #6. 4:27:57 PM Ordinance: Congregate Care Text Amendment Additional Recommendations. The Council will be briefed about a 
proposal that would create a land use classification to address 
short-term housing for the terminally ill and seriously ill 
(sometimes known as eleemosynary, residential support, group home, 
assisted living facility, or congregate care facilities). The 
updated proposal includes reviewing compatibility concerns for how

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 8 
this land use, and others like it, would impact the adjacent 
residential neighborhoods, particularly the Institutional Zoning 
District. Petition No. PLNPCM2016-00024 View Attachments Nick Tarbet, Katia Pace, Michaela Oktay, and Nick Norris 
briefed the Council with attachments. Discussion was held 
regarding Planning Commission recommendations (remove 25-person 
cap in the definition of Assisted Living Facilities, remove 800-
foot distance requirements between facilities, rename Eleemosynary 
to “Dwelling, Congregate Care” facility, create new parking 
requirement, etc.), proposing the addition of a qualifying 
provision limiting one individual allowed per 950 square/feet of 
lot area for Large Congregate Care/Large Assisted Living 
facilities only in the Institutional zoning districts, amending 
the definition of Congregate Care land use to explain how to define 
an individual to be calculated, Medical Respite being a service 
(not a land use type) and addressed/allowed as part of existing 
land uses in the zoning ordinance, reasoning for focus on 
Institutional zoning district (usually lying within low-density 
neighborhoods – potentially impacting the neighborhood), and 
allowance for existing facilities to increase the number of clients 
with the proposed changes. 
 
 #7. 4:59:40 PM Ordinance: Shared Housing Zoning Text Amendments Follow-up Briefing (formerly Single Room Occupancy or SROs). The 
Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a new proposal for 
Shared Housing zoning text amendments. The proposed amendments 
would redefine what was previously Single Room Occupancy (SRO) 
housing to Shared Housing, and defines it as a residential 
building, or part of one that contains smaller housing units 
consisting of one or more sleeping rooms and contains either a 
private kitchen or private bathroom, but not both. In the updated 
proposal, units could contain multiple sleeping rooms, rather than 
limiting the unit to one sleeping room. Petition No. PLNPCM2018-
00066. View Attachments Russell Weeks and Nick Norris briefed the Council regarding 
requirement that any universally accessible units be on the ground-
floor (if more than what could fit on the ground floor then 
allowable on other levels), and separate (new) petition being 
required for expansion of shared housing units into residential 
zones. #8. 5:06:21 PM Resolution: Authorizing Pick Up of Public Safety and Firefighter Employee Retirement Contributions. The Council

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 9 
will be briefed about a resolution that would authorize the City 
to “pick up” or cover qualifying Tier II public safety and 
firefighter employee retirement contributions. The Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2020-2021 annual budget split the cost between the City and 
employees. The City would fully cover the cost increase under the 
proposal. View Attachments 
 Benjamin Luedtke, David Salazar, and Carolyn Campbell briefed 
the Council regarding proposed change estimated to cost the City 
approximately $55,000 (included reimbursing those City employees 
who had made payments in the current fiscal year), change was 
result of Senate Bill (SB) 129 of 2019 (increased public safety 
retirement multiplier from 1.5% to 2% and effective starting July 
1, 2020 – higher benefit to the employee), the change in State law 
resulted in a cost increase of 4.27% for the retirement plans with 
two options: covered fully by the employer, or split between 
employer/employee – adopted fiscal year (FY) 21 budget splits the 
cost between the City and employees), Administration now 
recommending the City fully cover the cost increase and reimburse 
City employees making payments since July 1, 2020, and proposed 
change being built into the annual budget each year at 2.27%. 
 
 #9. 5:18:02 PM Informational: County Sales Tax for Transportation Projects Follow-up. The Salt Lake County fourth 
quarter-cent sales tax for transportation funding is a new, ongoing 
funding source dedicated to transportation. The Council will 
receive a follow-up briefing about the Administration’s proposed 
projects for Fiscal Year 2020-21. Funding includes $1.5 million 
for improvements to prepare for frequent transit bus service on 
600 North and 1000 North, $800,000 for improvements to the 9-Line 
Trail and Folsom Trail, and $200,000 for alleyway maintenance, 
among other items. The Council may consider a straw poll to support 
releasing funds for some or all project proposals. View Attachments Benjamin Luedtke, Blake Thomas, Jonathan Larsen, Jennifer Bruno, and Julianne Sabula briefed the Council with attachments. 
Discussion was held regarding Transportation’s Quality 
Transportation Improvement Plan (QTIP) website (providing 
clarity/transparency regarding scoring metrics, processes, tools 
used, funding opportunities, and links to master project list), 
QTIP being Transportations new 5 year program (technical project 
screening with 23 data points: analysis of equity, sustainability, 
good governance, and safety), prioritization of a 5+ year project 
list, matching projects with opportunities (Capital Improvement

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 10 
Projects - CIP, Fourth quarter, Funding Our Future, etc.), proposed 
QTIP annual timeline (successful with high-level buy in from 
multiple levels throughout the City – particularly the Council), 
goal being to receive feedback from the Council regarding project 
prioritization, providing the Council requested list of projects 
not selected this year, QTIP providing accountability, 
transparency, and clarity about why projects get selected, 
different this year was a dedicated funding stream and potential 
discussions to determine if it was automatically directed or added 
to the larger CIP conversation (used for CIP projects), and 
motivation for the project was to be organized with more 
information for more informed discussions. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston raised concerns regarding potentially 
choosing between a project that was ready to go but was not nearly 
as impactful (to surrounding area/neighborhood) as a project that 
maybe was not ready and would never be because they could never 
start. 
 
 Councilmember Fowler said she was in favor of releasing 
funds/not holding up required work but requested more time to 
discuss the process to understand the benefits to the Department 
as well as the Council. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for release of the recommended project 
list, and to move forward with releasing funds for said projects 
and set this topic for a future agenda item for policy discussion. 
All Council Members were in favor. 
 
 #10. 5:48:45 PM Board Appointment: Utah Performing Arts Center Agency (UPACA) – Rachel Otto. The Council will interview Rachel 
Otto prior to considering her appointment to the UPACA Board for 
a term ending October 6, 2024. View Attachments 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Rachel Otto’s 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 
 #11. 5:52:12 PM Board Appointment: Human Rights Commission – Shannon Kelly. The Council will interview Shannon Kelly prior to 
considering her appointment to the Human Rights Commission for a 
term ending April 3, 2022. Shannon is replacing Kimberlyn Mains, 
who resigned August 2020. View Attachments 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Shannon 
Kelly’s name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 11 
 #12. 5:56:56 PM Board Appointment: Business Advisory Board – Edward Bennett. The Council will interview Edward Bennett prior to 
considering his appointment as an ex-officio member to the Business 
Advisory Board for a term ending December 27, 2021. View Attachments 
 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Edward 
Bennett’s name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 STANDING ITEMS 
 
 #13. Report of the Chair and Vice Chair 
 
 No discussion was held. 
 
 #14. Report and Announcements from the Executive Director. 
Report of the Executive Director, including a review of Council 
information items and announcements. The Council may give feedback 
or staff direction on any item related to City Council business, 
including but not limited to scheduling items. 
 
 Item not held. 
 #15. Tentative Closed Session. Council will consider a motion 
to enter into Closed Session for any specific purpose under Section 
52-4-205. 
 
 Item not held. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 6:03 p.m. 
 
Minutes approved on May 4, 2021 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
Chris Wharton (Jun 3, 2021 15:06 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jun 8, 2021 08:54 MDT)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 12 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
October 6, 2020. 
 
dr

10-06-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(approved 05-04-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-06-08
Created:2021-06-03
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAXFfcXHDykah-bTSptTQQBbAKmeeR11Mg
"10-06-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (approved 05-04-21)" 
History
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-06-03 - 4:12:26 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-03 - 4:13:14 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-06-03 - 9:06:30 PM GMT- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-06-03 - 9:06:44 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-03 - 9:06:45 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-06-08 - 2:54:40 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-06-08 - 2:54:40 PM GMT
