                                     RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 23- 14


    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING RIVERTON CITY CODE TITLE 2 CHAPTER 55
                                   OFFICE OF POLICE CHIEF]


         WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Section 10- 3b- 105 ( 2) ( c), a municipal may " create
any office the council considers necessary for the government of the municipality;"               and the
Riverton City Council has accordingly created the municipal department of the Riverton Police
Department; and


         WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Section 10- 3- 910, ( 1) the administration of the police
and fire departments shall consist of a chief of each department and other officers, members,
employees and agents as provided by ordinance or statute;"

         WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the Riverton City code
should be amended to improve provisions relating to the authority of the Riverton City Police
Chief;


         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Riverton City Council as follows:

Section 1.      Riverton City Code Title 2, Chapter 55 is hereby amended to read as
                follows:


               2. 55. 010 Chief of police, city marshal, town marshal or marshal.
               The terms " sheriff," ``chief of police," - city marshal," " town marshal,"   or


                 marshal" as used in this code all have the same meaning and may be used
                interchangeably. For purposes of this code these shall all mean and refer to the
                Chief of the Riverton Police Department, or " Police Chief' appointed to serve
                Riverton City.

                2. 55. 020 Office of Police Chief


                 1)   As used in this section, the term " city administration" shall refer to the
                Mayor, and in the Mayor' s absence, the City Manager.

                 2)   Police Chief: The function of the Police Chief shall be to administer the daily
                duties and functions of the Riverton Police Department.


                 3) Appointment of Police Chief. The mayor shall appoint a qualified person to
                be chief of the city police department with the advice and consent of the city
                council.


                 4)   Functions And Duties Of Police Chief: Subject to the supervision and

                direction of city administration the police chief s duties shall include, but are not
                limited to:
                      a)
                            Carrying out the duties of the Riverton Police Department as prescribed
               by law;

                      b)    Supervising and controlling the function of the Riverton Police
               Department;



                      c)
                            Enforcing the laws of the United States, State of Utah and city
               ordinances, investigating violations thereof and apprehending and assisting in the
               prosecution of the violators thereof,


                     d)     Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s response to calls for
               emergency     assistance;



                      e)    Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s Investigation of traffic
               accidents;




                     f) Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s Recovery of lost, stolen
               property and maintaining the same until said property is disposed of, as provided
               by law;

                      g) With the concurrence of city administration, establishing within the
               police department such divisions or sections as may seem necessary or proper for
               the efficient and effective operation of the department and its functions; and


                      h)    Performing such other duties as are assigned by city administration.

               5)   Legal Support:     The Chief of Police shall seek the legal direction, and receive

               legal support from, the office of the Riverton City Attorney.

               6)   Other Duties Assigned By City Administration: The enumeration of the
               foregoing duties and responsibilities shall not be deemed to prevent or limit city
               administration from prescribing additional duties, functions, or responsibilities to
               the police chief or assigning the designated duties and responsibilities to another
               department or division, as city administration shall deem appropriate.

               7)   Powers And Duties Of Police Officers: The members of the police force shall
               have all power and authority authorized in state and federal law.

Section   2.   The City Recorder is authorized and directed to replace the terms " sheriff'
                chief of police," " city marshal," "       town marshal," or " marshal,"   wherever   the


               foregoing terms are found within Riverton Municipal Code, with the term " Chief
                                                       2
             of the Riverton Police Department" or " Police Chief," where appropriate

             wherever.   Foregoing notwithstanding, this section shall not apply to Riverton
             City Code Section 2. 55. 010.

Section 3.   This ordinance shall take effect immediately.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, this 15th day of August
2023 by the following vote:

                                          YES   NO
        Councilmember Tish Buroker
        Councilmember Tawnee McCay
        Councilmember Troy McDougal
        Councilmember Andy Pierucci
        Councilmemjbex        ude Wells
                       ERr©&

                                                RIVERTON        CITY




                                                Tre   Staggs,          or




Jami,   Larsen,   Recorder




                                            4
                                        Legislative Copy]

2. 55. 010 Chief of police, city marshal, town marshal or marshal.

The terms " sheriff," " chief of police," `` city marshal," " town marshal,"   or " marshal"   as used in

this code all have the same meaning and may be used interchangeably. For purposes of this code
these shall all mean and refer to the captain of       Salt       County sheriff-,s depal4m       Chief of

the Riverton Police Department,      or " Police Chief' appointed- as i        to serve Riverton City.

2. 55. 020 Office of Police Chief


 1)   As used in this section, the term " city administration" shall refer to the Mayor, and in the
Mayor' s absence, the City Manager.

      Police Chief. The function of the Police Chief shall be to administer the dailv duties and
functions of the Riverton Police Department.


 3)   Appointment of Police Chief: The mayor shall appoint a qualified person to be chief of the
city police department with the advice and consent of the city council.

4)    Functions And Duties Of Police Chief: Subject to the supervision and direction of city
administration the police chiefs duties shall include, but are not limited to:

           a)
                Carrying out the duties of the Riverton Police Department as prescribed by law;

           b)   Supervising and controlling the function of the Riverton Police Department;

           c)Enforcing the laws of the United States, State of Utah and city ordinances,
investigating violations thereof and apprehending and assistinginn the prosecution of the violators
thereof,


           d)   Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s response to calls for emergency
assistance;




           e)   Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s Investigation of traffic accidents;

        f) Overseeing the Riverton Police Department' s Recovery of lost, stolen property and
maintaining the same until said propertyiss disposed of, as provided by law;

           g)   With the concurrence of city administration, establishing within the police
department such divisions or sections as may seem necessary or proper for the efficient and
effective operation of the department and its functions: and


           h)   Performing such other duties as are assigned by city administration.

 5)   Legal Support: The Chief of Police shall seek the legal direction        and receive legal support
from, the office of the Riverton City Attorney.
6)       Other Duties Assigned By City Administration:    The enumeration of the foregoingduties and
responsibil ties shall not be deemed to prevent or limit city administration from prescribing additional
duties,functions, or responsibilties to the police chief or assigning the designated duties
and responsibilities to       another department or division, as   city administration shall   deem aqppropnate.
7)




Powers   And Duties Of Police Officers: The members of the police force shall have all power
and authority authorized in state and federal law.
                                      CERTIFICATE    OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 23- 14 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the

151h day of August 2023 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:

       1.    City Hall

       2. Public Notice Website




       Dated this 151h day of July 2023.


                 jeRT0/ y C
                   SE44 `*** \               Jai   e Larsen, Recorder
           SSE
      i*     RrvFErareN *        js
                  1947 ***

                 F OF U P`
