                                        RIVERTON       CITY, UTAH
                                          ORDINANCE NO. 24- 02


      AN ORDINANCE                 AMENDING       TITLE     10, SECTION   10. 10 PARKING    OF
             RIVERTON          CITY CODE REGARDING             PARKING REGULATIONS


     WHEREAS, Tite 10 of Riverton Municipal Code regulates the operation and parking
of vehicles within the territorial jurisdiction Riverton City; and

     WHEREAS, Riverton City has identified the practice of parking commercial
vehicles, trailers, and the like on city streets for extended periods of time, and for purposes
unrelated to providing bona fide services to properties in the vicinity of a parked
commercial vehicle; and


     WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines the practice of parking
such vehicles on streets within the municipal territory of Riverton City adversely affects
the health, safety and welfare of its residents by obstructing visibility within public rights
of way and interfering with normal traffic flow; and

      NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City,
Utah as follows:




 Section       1.       The Riverton City Code sections 10. 10. 010 through 10. 10. 060 are hereby
                        renumbered as Sections 10. 10. 020 through 070 respectively.

 Section      2.        Section 10. 10. 010 is hereby adopted to read as follows:

 10. 10. 010        Definitions:


       1)     Definitions.    as used in this Title:


   a) "      Commercial vehicle" means a vehicle in excess of one ton capacity of whatever
           make or type used for commercial or agricultural purposes. The term " commercial
           vehicle" includes, without limitation, all so called " semi" truck tractors and " semi"
           truck trailers.


   b) " Trailer"        means Any truck trailer or other trailer designed or adapted primarily for
           the transportation of materials, debris or property of whatever kind, including,
           without limitation, boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles, all -terrain vehicles or
           motorcycles.




    c) "     Truck" Any truck tractor, tractor trailers, panel truck, pickup or other truck in
            excess of three -fourth ( 3/ 4) ton capacity.

 Section 3. Section 10. 10. 020 ( 6) ( d) is renumbered to section 10. 10. 020 ( 6) ( e).
Section 4. Section 10. 10. 020 ( 6) ( d) is hereby adopted to read as follows:


 d) No person shall park any:

          i. Commercial vehicle, agricultural vehicle, occupied or empty trailer, or truck on
                     any public street adjacent to a lot or parcel containing a residential
                     dwelling, or on any public street within a residential zone of the City for a
                     period of time longer than two ( 2) hours within any twenty four ( 24) hour
                     period;
          ii. Agricultural vehicle, occupied or empty trailer, or truck within the front yard area

                            of any residential zone of the City; or
          iii..    Commercial vehicle on any lot or parcel within any residential zone of the City.

 Exception: The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to vehicles actively being
used in the servicing of adjacent properties or streets.


Section           5.        This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or upon posting as
                            required by law. The City Recorder is hereby authorized to amend and re-
                            publish the Riverton City Municipal Code in a manner consistent with this
                            amendment.




                  PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 19ch
day of March, 2024 by the following vote:

                                                           YES        NO
                  Councilmember          Tish Buroker
                  Councilmember          Spencer Haymond
                  Councilmember Tawnee McCay /
                  Councilmember Troy McDougal ,/
                  Councilmember Andy Pierucci                                 6 -A O
                              ERToN

                                 EA( "
                                                           RIVERTON CITY
                       kl                     S

                              uERr
                               rA




ATTEST:
                            FOP UtP',I                     Trent S     ggs,       yor




Ja          a Larsen,        Recorder
     1.




                                                           W
                                                 Legislative Copy

    10. 10. 010       Definitions:



         1)   As used in this Title:


               a) "    Commercial vehicle" means a vehicle in excess of one ton capacity of
                      whatever make or type used for commercial or agricultural purposes. The term
                       commercial vehicle" includes, without limitation, all so called " semi" truck
                      tractors and " semi" truck trailers.


               b) " Trailer" means Any truck trailer or other trailer designed or adapted
                      primarily for the transportation of materials, debris or property of whatever
                      kind, including, without limitation, boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles,
                      all -terrain vehicles or motorcycles.


               c) "    Truck" Any truck tractor, tractor trailers, panel truck, pickup or other truck in
                      excess of three -fourth ( 3/ 4) ton capacity_



1   10. 10. 04 - 020 Unlawful parking.

     1) Parking at Curb. No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side of the vehicle
    next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be unlawful to stand or park any
    motor vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right wheels of
    the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line, except on those streets
    which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the angle to
    the curb indicated by such marks.

     2) Loading Zone. When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a passenger
    vehicle to stand or park such vehicle for a period of time longer than is permitted by the
    posted sign for the loading or unloading of passengers, or for the driver to stand or park
    any freight carrying motor vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary to load,
    unload and deliver materials in any place designated as a loading zone and marked as
    such.


     3) Parking Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on
    any street in violation of posted parking restrictions or any provisions of city code. This
    subsection shall not apply to physicians, nurses, emergency medical technicians,
    paramedics, fire fighters, law enforcement officers, or other government personnel
    responding to a bona fide emergency.

    4) Alleys. No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such manner or under
    such conditions as to leave less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway or alley available


                                                             3
for the free movement of vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle
within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property.


5) Cab Stands — Bus Stands.       No motor vehicle other than a designated public
transportation vehicle or licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated by
ordinance as a taxicab stand and no vehicle other than a bus shall stop, stand or park in a
place so designated as a bus loading zone.

6) Parking Prohibited.

      a) It shall be an infraction for any person to park or leave standing on any public
     road, street, alley or city property any motor vehicle, boat, trailer, motor home, or
      tractor for 48 or more consecutive     hours, and which has not been moved a
      minimum of 400 feet prior to returning to the same location. Any vehicle so parked
      or left standing may be impounded or removed by law enforcement.

       b) It shall be an infraction for any person, for any length of time, to park or leave
      standing on any public road, street, alley, or city property any motor vehicle, boat,
      trailer, motor home, or tractor with damaged, faulty, or defective equipment which
      would render the vehicle unlawful to operate under state code or city ordinance.
      Any vehicle so parked or left standing may be impounded or removed by law
      enforcement.



       c) It is an infraction for any person to park any vehicle designed/ constructed for
      the purpose of providing living accommodations ( hereinafter " recreational
      vehicle")     on any public grounds and thereafter reside in said recreational vehicle for
      any length of time. For the purpose of this section, the term " public grounds" means
      any real property, including public streets, owned in whole or in part by the United
      States of America and its agencies, or the state of Utah or any of its political
      subdivisions, including Riverton City, upon which camping has not been authorized
      by the owner. It is unlawful for any person using or benefiting from the use of said
      recreational vehicle to fail to remove the same within 25 minutes after being
      requested to do so by any police officer. Any recreational vehicle so parked or left
      standing may be impounded or removed by law enforcement.

      d) No person shall park any.

            i. Commercial vehicle, agricultural vehicle, occupied or empty trailer, or truck
                   on any public street adjacent to a lot or parcel containing a residential
                   dwelling, or on any public street within a residential zone of the City for a
                   period of time longer than two ( 2) hours within any twenty four 24) hour
                   period;
            ii.   Agricultural vehicle, occupied or empty trailer, or truck within the front
                   yard area of any residential zone of the Citor



                                                  4
          iii..   Commercial vehicle on any lot or parcel within any residential zone of the
                  City.


      Exception: The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to vehicles actively being
     used in the servicing of adjacent properties or streets.



       de) The cost of impoundment and removal for any violation of this section shall be
      charged to the owner or any person who claims the impounded motor vehicle.

10. 10. 00-030 Parking or blocking streets or highways.

In addition to the parking provisions contained in the Motor Vehicle Act, as adopted by
this city, it shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to:

 1) Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a manner as to
obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic thereon.

2) Willfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such manner
for more than one minute after being requested to move by any police officer.

 3) Willfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to obstruct the free
passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property abutting upon the street or
highway or any property having access to such street or highway. [ Ord. 22- 23 § 1 ( Exh.
A); Ord. 22- 01 § 1 ( Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 11- 3- 27.]



10. 10.030-040 Vehicle registration and plates.

Every vehicle, at all times while being parked upon the public highways, streets, alleys,
or parking lots of Riverton City, shall:

 1) Be registered in the name of the owner thereof in accordance with the laws of Utah;


 2) Display in proper position two valid, unexpired license ( registration) plates, one on
the front and one on the rear of such vehicle; and


 3) When required, current validation or indicia of registration attached to the rear plate
and in a manner complying with the laws of the state of Utah, and free from defacement,
mutilation, and obscuring matter so as to be plainly visible. However, if such vehicle is
not required to be registered in Utah, and the indicia of registration issued by another
state, territory, possession or district of the United States, or of a foreign country,
complies with the laws of Utah and substantially complies with the provisions hereof,
such registration   shall be considered   as compliance   with this section. [ Ord. 22- 23 §   1

 Exh. A).]


10. 10. 040- 050 No parking.
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, or in the Motor Vehicle Act, it shall be an
infraction to park or leave standing at any time a motor vehicle, as defined in the Motor
Vehicle Act as adopted by this city, in violation of any no parking sign. [ Ord. 22- 01 §         1
Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 11- 3- 43.]


10. 10. 050- 060 Limited winter parking.

  1) It shall be unlawful for any person or owner of any vehicle to park a motor vehicle,
travel trailer, horse trailer, utility trailer, or other like vehicle on any street in Riverton
City from the date of November 1 st of each year until the date of March 1 st of the
following year during a snowstorm, or when snow has accumulated in lanes of travel on a
city street.


 2) Notwithstanding the foregoing restriction, a person may park a motor vehicle on a
street within Riverton City:

       a) For a period of time not longer than three minutes when loading or unloading
      passengers; and

       b) For a period of time not longer than 30 minutes when loading, unloading or
      delivering property.

 3) A violation of this section shall be punishable as an infraction, by impoundment and
removal of the vehicle, or both. [ Ord. 22- 01 §       1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 17- 06 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord.
11- 06 § 1 ( Exh. A). Code 1997 § 11- 3- 45.]


10. 10. 060- 070 Special parking regulations.

No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of

 1) Greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency; and

 2) The sale of foodstuffs or other merchandise on any public grounds except as
described in Chapter 18. 230 RCC. For the purpose of this section, the term " public
grounds" means any real property owned in whole or in part by the United States of
America and its agencies, or the state of Utah or any of its political subdivisions,
including Riverton City.




                                                 rel
                                   CERTIFICATE       OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 02 was adopted by the Riverton City Council

on the 191h day of March 2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the

following locations:

        1.   City Hall

       2.    Public   Notice   Website




       Dated this 19`h day of March 2024.


                  O%
                   j ERToN c
                         sue'
                                             Jam'
                                                           7--
                                                       Larsen,   Recorder

                        UERre
                          A /
                              N*

               S ****    947
                 QT ®
                          F UlP'




                                                 7
