                                                    RIVERTON      CITY, UTAH
                                                     ORDINANCE         NO. 24- 01



      AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING SECTION 17. 35, REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS IN
     COMPLIANCE              WITH         UTAH    STATE   CODE,   REGULATING        PROCESSING,   REVIEW,   AND
     APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISIONS IN COMPLIANCE WITH ADOPTED UTAH STATE CODE,
                                         ORDINANCE    PROPOSED         BY RIVERTON    CITY.



        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing to consider said text amendment
and forwarded a recommendation to the City Council; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said text amendment; and

        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the public
adopt the Riverton City Code Section 17. 35, Review and Approval Process in Compliance with Utah State
Code, as described in Exhibit " A".


         NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah as follows:

         Section 1.        The Riverton City Code Section 17. 35, shall be, and hereby is, adopted as shown in
                           Exhibit " A."


         Section     2.    Section 17. 35 shall supersede and take precedence over any provisions, standards, or
                           requirements in the Riverton City Code to the contrary.

         Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

         PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 61h day of February
2024 by the following vote:

                                                          YES     NO
         Councilmember Tish Buroker
         Councilmember Spencer Haymond

         Councilmember Tawnee McCay
         Councilmember Troy McDougal
         Count            ember Andy Pierucci
                           ildk•±

             1 ***                  KV

                                                          RIVERTON       CITY
                                            1j
                     RIVERT0
                        UTA11 ;
                                N          jr I
                          1947

ATTEST: '
                     QTF ® P U'tp'
                                                          Trent Oaggs, kayor


Ja    ie Larsen,      Recorder
Exhibit " A"
                                                          Title 17
                                                    SUBDIVISIONS




          Chapters:

               17. 05   General Provisions
               17. 10   Subdivision Processing and Approval Procedures
               17. 15   General Subdivision Improvement Requirements
               17. 20   Subdivision Standards
               17. 25   Street Lighting
               17. 35   Review   and Approval   Process   in Compliance   with Utah State Code




                                                             2
                                                        Title 17. 35
                        Review and Approval       Process in Compliance     with Utah State Code


Sections:
17. 35. 010.        Applicability
17. 35. 020.        Defined Terms.
17. 35. 030.        Designation of a Single Administrative Land Use Authority for Review and Approval of
                    Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications.
17. 35. 040.        Process for a Pre -Application meeting prior to Application Submission
17. 35. 050.        Establishment of Process and application for Preliminary Subdivision Application.
17. 35. 060.        Establishment    of Process and application   for Final Subdivision   Application.


17. 35. 010. Applicability.
     1.  This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision applications for single- family
           dwellings, two- family dwellings, or townhomes.
    2.     This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed upon by the City
           Council exercising land use authority in the review of land use applications for zoning or other land
           use regulation    approvals.


    3.     The review cycle restrictions and requirements of this section do not apply to the review of single-
           family dwellings, two- family dwellings, or townhomes subdivision applications affecting property
           within identified geological hazard areas under the City Code.
    4.     Riverton City does not permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat with the
           premilitary subdivision plat application.
    5.     This section supersedes any conflicting language in the Riverton City Code.

17. 35. 020. Defined        Terms.
    1. "    Administrative land use authority" means an individual, board, or commission, appointed or
           employed by Riverton City, including the staff or the planning commission.
    2. "    Administrative land use authority" does not include the municipal City Council or a member of the
           City Council.
    3. "    Complete application" will include all required materials listed in the application and associated
           checklist( s).

    4. "    Review cycle" means the occurrence of-
            i)      the applicant' s submittal of a complete subdivision land use application;
            ii)     the City' s review of that subdivision land use application;
            iii)    the City' s response to that subdivision land use application, in accordance with this section;
           and
            iv)     the applicant' s reply to the City' s response that addresses each of Riverton City' s required
           modifications     or requests for additional information.
    5. "    Subdivision improvement plans" means the civil engineering plans associated with required
           infrastructure and municipally controlled utilities required for a subdivision.
   6. " Subdivision ordinance review" means review by the City to verify that a subdivision land use
       application meets the criteria of the City' s subdivision ordinances.
   7. " Subdivision plan review" means a review of the applicant' s subdivision improvement plans and

       other aspects of the subdivision land use application to verify that the application complies with
          municipal      ordinances   and applicable   standards       and specifications.


17. 35. 030. Designation of a Single Administrative Land Use Authority for Review and Approval of
Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications.
   1.  Preliminary Subdivision Applications.
             a)    Riverton City hereby designates the Planning Commission to review and approve
                   preliminary    subdivision   applications.
   2. Final Subdivision Applications.
             b)    Riverton City hereby designates the Development Services Director or designee to review
                   and approve final subdivision applications.



17. 35. 040. Process for a Pre -Application meeting prior to Application Submission.
     1.  If an applicant requests a pre -application meeting, Riverton City shall, within 15 business days after
          the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.
   2.     At the pre -application meeting, the staff shall provide or have available on the city website the
          following:
              a.   copies of applicable land use regulations;
             b.    a complete list of standards required for the project;
              c.   preliminary and final application checklists; and
              d.   feedback on the concept plan.

17. 35. 050. Establishment of Process and application for Preliminary Subdivision Application.
    1.    Preliminary Subdivision Application.
          The application for preliminary subdivision applications and materials can be found on the City' s
          website and at the City Office.

   2.     Review Process and Timing
          A. City staff shall complete a review of the applicant' s preliminary subdivision land use application
          to determine if it is a complete application.


          B. No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete
          application, City staff shall complete a review of the applicant' s preliminary subdivision land use
          application for a residential subdivision for single- family dwellings, two- family dwellings, or
          townhomes, including subdivision improvement plans.

          C. In reviewing the preliminary subdivision land use application, the City may require:
                    i)       additional information relating to an applicant' s plans to ensure compliance with
                             municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of
                             public improvements; and

                                                                   4
                  ii)    modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
                         specifications, or do not contain complete information.
                  iii)   The City' s request for additional information or modifications to plans under
                         Subsection (D)( a)( i) or (ii) shall be specific and include citations to all City
                         ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modifications to plans, and
                         shall be logged in an index of requested modifications     or additions.



         D. City staff shall review the applicant' s resubmittal to determine if it is a complete resubmittal,
         including all additional information requested.

         E. City Staff shall determine when the application and plans are ready for presentation to the
         administrative land use authority, and notice the application for a public hearing.

         F. The administrative land use authority will:
                  a)
                         hold a public hearing to review the preliminary application; and
                  b)     receive public comment; and
                  c)
                         hold no more than one public hearing.


17. 35. 060. Establishment of Process and application for Final Subdivision Application.
1. Final Subdivision Application.

         The application for final subdivision applications and materials can be found on the City' s website
         and at the City Office.
2. City staff shall complete a review of the applicant' s preliminary subdivision land use application to
determine if it is a complete application.


  Review Process and Timing
   A. No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete application,
         City staff shall complete a review of the applicant' s final subdivision land use application for a
         residential subdivision for single- family dwellings, two- family dwellings, or townhomes including
         all subdivision plan reviews.
    B.   In reviewing the final subdivision land use application, the City may require:
          i)     additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with municipal
         ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public improvements; and
          ii)    modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
         specifications, or do not contain complete information.
    A. The City' s request for additional information or modifications to plans under Subsection ( 2)( 13)( 1) or
          ii) shall be specific and include citations to all City ordinances, standards, or specifications that
         require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
         additions.




17. 35. 070. Process for Review of Preliminary and Final applications.
    A. A review cycle begins when an application or resubmittal         is determined to be complete.




                                                          5
B. (    i) Subject to Subsection ( B)( ii), unless the change or correction is necessitated by the applicant' s
       adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the
       specific development, a change or correction not addressed or referenced in Riverton City' s plan
       review is waived as required by Utah State Code.
        ii) A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state or
       federal law may not be waived.
C.     If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the City has the discretion to restart the review
       process at the first review of the final application, but only with respect to the portion of the plan set
       that the material change substantively effects.
D. If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after Riverton City requires a
   modification or correction, Riverton City shall have an additional 20 business days to respond to the
       plans.
E.     After the applicant has responded       to the final review cycle, and the applicant has complied with

       each modification requested in Riverton City's previous review cycle, Riverton City may not require
       additional revisions if the applicant has not materially changed the plan, other than changes that
       were in response to requested modifications or corrections.
F. (    i)      In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written explanation in response to
       the City' review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and reasons for
       declining to make revisions, if any.
        ii)     The applicant' s written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including citations
                to applicable   standards   and ordinances   for the design and an index of requested revisions    or
                additions for each required correction.
        iii)    If an applicant fails to address a review comment       in the response, the review cycle is not
                complete and the subsequent review cycle by the City may not begin until all comments are
                addressed.

G. If, on the fourth or final review, the City fails to respond within 20 business days, the City shall,
   upon request of the property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which the request
       is received:

                 i) for a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel
                in accordance with Utah Code Subsection 10- 9a- 508( 5)( d) et seq. to review and approve or
                deny the final revised set of plans. Unless otherwise agreed by the applicant and Riverton
                City, the panel shall consist of the following three experts:
                     a.
                         one licensed engineer, designated by the City;
                     b. one licensed engineer, designated by the land use applicant; and
                     c.  one licensed engineer, agreed upon and designated by the two designated engineers
                        as appointed in subsection ( i) a and b.
        ii)     A member of the panel assembled by the City under Subsection ( i) may not have an interest
                in the application that is the subject of the appeal.
        iii)    The land use applicant shall pay:
                       a. 50% of the cost of the panel; and

                       b. the City' s published appeal fee.; or



                                                             N
c. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant,
in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the right to appeal the
determination to a designated appeal authority.




                                11
                                         CERTIFICATE OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 01 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the

6`h day of February 2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:

       1.   City Hall

       2.   Public   Notice    Website




       Dated this 6ch day of February 2024.




            F_WAMR ON
                   1947 **##
                                 e
                                 K0      jJamiLarsen,      Recorder




            T,a,
                   OF U' a
