                                           RIVERTON        CITY, UTAH
                                            ORDINANCE        NO. 24- 15


   AN ORDINANCE          AMENDING         RIVERTON         CITY CODE      TITLE       8, ADDING       CHAPTER       45
                                           PROHIBITED        CAMPING]


        WHEREAS, in the year 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reviewed
an ordinance adopted by the City of Boise, Idaho, which prohibited use of streets, parks, sidewalks, or
public places for camping purposes ( the " Boise Ordinance");       and


        WHEREAS, upon review of the Boise Ordinance, the Ninth Circuit declared that the Eighth
Amendment' s Cruel and Unusual Punishments            Clause barred Boise from enforcing its public - camping
ordinance against homeless persons who lacked access to an alternative shelter; and

        WHEREAS, the City of Grants Pass, Washington, undertook a multifaceted approach to
addressing homelessness, by educating homeless on available resources and adopting an ordinance which
barred camping on public property (the Grants " Pass Ordinance"); and

        WHEREAS, the Grants Pass Ordinance was challenged in federal court in light of the precedent
set by the Ninth Circuit when it decided the Boise Ordinance was unconstitutional;              and

        WHEREAS, the case undertaken against the City of Grants Pass was eventually appealed to the
United States Supreme Court, which upheld the Grants Pass Ordinance and overturned the precedent set by
the Ninth Circuit   when it struck down the Boise Ordinance.


        WHEREAS, in making its decision, the Supreme Court found a number of facts regarding the
homelessness crisis affecting the United States at this time; and

        WHEREAS,        the Supreme      Court found the number of homeless         individuals   in the United     States

has grown to the highest levels ever seen since records were first taken to track homelessness rates; and

        WHEREAS, the Supreme Court found that the growing number of homeless individuals causes a
corresponding increase in homeless encampments, where homeless individuals will " coalesce in these
encampments    for a range of reasons;"    and


        WHEREAS, the Supreme Court found homeless encampments in turn become a center of gravity
for criminal behavior perpetrated both against the homeless and by the homeless; and

        WHEREAS          the   Supreme     Court   found   the   City   of Seattle,     Washington,     estimates     that

approximately 40 percent of shooting -related crimes were linked to homeless encampments; and

        WHEREAS, the Supreme Court found homeless encampments give rise to public health hazards
such as the spread of disease, owing to a lack of facilities which would support sanitation; and

        WHEREAS,        Supreme   Court found that cities have seen typhus, shigella, and trench fever remerge
on their streets in areas where homeless     camps are found; and


        WHEREAS, the Supreme Court found the homeless crisis disproportionately affects western
states, with the highest rates of homelessness     found in California,   Oregon,     Arizona   and Nevada;   and


       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the lessons learned by the
Supreme Court are valuable in setting policy for Riverton City as it strives to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of its community; and
        WHEREAS, The Riverton City Council finds and determines that to guard against the spread of
disease and crime within its municipal territory it needs to adopt ordinances which prohibit camping on
public property; and

         WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council further finds and determines that the Grants Pass
Ordinance, having persevered under the fullest scrutiny possible in the courts of the United States, serves
as a suitable ordinance on which to model a camping ordinance for Riverton City;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Riverton City Council as follows:

Section 1.       Amendment.          The Riverton City Code Title 8 is hereby amended adding Chapter
                 45 to read as follows        in the attached   Exhibit   A.


Section 2.       Adoption. This ordinance shall take effect on publication in compliance with Utah
                 Law.


                                                                                         i'
        PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 16` day of July, 2024
by the following vote:

                                                          YES       NO
        Councilmember          Tish Buroker
        Councilmember Spencer Haymond
        Councilmember Tawnee McCay
        Counciln                 oy McDougal
        Cout                        Pierucci


                                                          RIVERTON CITY


                 IVERTL              11/
                     7947 **                              TreAWtaggs,          Mayor

ATTEST: '      QTF       utPi

       Larsen, Recorder
Exhibit A
                                     CERTIFICATE OF POSTING




        I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby Certify that the

foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 15 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 16th day of July 2024

and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:

        1.   City Hall

        2. Public Notice Website




        Dated this 16th day of July 2024.



              vL%VER7r*—
                           C/I

                                            Jamb   Larsen, Recorder
              AE4 *# , S /
                                 t
                v r4Tt%
                    H® N *

                947 ****

              OF UTAN




                                                     0
                                                     Chapter 8. 45
                                             PROHIBITED        CAMPING


8. 45. 010       Definitions
 1) "    To Camp" means to set up or to remain in or at a campsite
 2) "
     Campsite" means anyplace where bedding sleeping bag or other material used for bedding
purposes or any stove or fire is placed established or maintained for the purpose of maintaining
a temporary place to live whether or not such place incorporates the use of any tent lean-to
shack, or any other structure, or any vehicle or part thereof.
 3) "    Personal property" means for the purposes of this Chapter, any item reasonably recognizable
as belonging to a person and having apparent utility or monetary value


8. 45. 020       Camping Prohibited
 1) No person may occupy a campsite in or upon any sidewalk street alley, lane public right of
way, park, bench, or any other publicly -owned property or under any bridge or viaduct unless ( i)
otherwise        specifically   authorized   by this Code (   ii) by a formal declaration of the City Manager
in emergency circumstances             or ( iii) subject to subsection ( 2)   the Riverton City Council passes a
Resolution which exempts a special event from the prohibitions in this Chapter.
            a)
               The City Council may grant an exemption only if the Council finds that such
            exemption is in the public interest and consistent with Council goals and notices.
            b)    The City Council may impose any reasonable condition upon an exemption to
           mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed camping special
            event.

2) Any qpplicant seeking an exemption to this Chapter may be required to provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the City for any liability, damage or
expense incurred by the City as a result.
 3) An exemption
         xemption shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
        Violation of this Section is considered a nuisance and punishable as a class B misdemeanor.



8. 45. 030 Removal of Campsite on Public Property
 1) Upon discovery of a campsite on public property, removal of the campsite by the Riverton
Police Department may occur under the following conditions:
            a) Prior to removing the campsite, the City shall post a notice, 24- hours in advance.
            b) At the time a 24- hour notice is posted, the City shall inform a local agency ( delivering
           social services to homeless individuals)        of the location of the campsite.
            c)    After the 24- hour     notice   period   has passed,    the Riverton   Police   Department    is
        authorized to remove the campsite and all personal property related thereto.
2)       Upon
            the completion of conditions in subsection ( 1) of this Section by an authorized

official of the Riverton Police Department, Personal Property having no apparent utility or
monetary value and items in an unsanitary condition may be immediately discarded. Weapons,
drug_paraphernalia, items appearing to be stolen, and evidence of a crime may be retained as
evidence by the Riverton Police Department until an alternate disposition is determined.                       All
personal property removed from the campsite which is not retained, disposed of, or held as
evidence ( as provided herein) shall be stored by the Riverton Police Department for 30 days,
during which time it shall be reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming
ownership.




8- 45- 040 Mitigation
 1)Upon conviction for a violation of this Chapter, in addition to any other factors deemed
appropriate by the Court, the Court shall consider in mitigation whether or not the person
immediately removed all personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans,
and garbage from the campsite after being informed it was in violation of the law.
