                                            RIVERTON    CITY, UTAH
                                            ORDINANCE     NO. 24- 13


 AN ORDINANCE SECTION 18. 195. 060( 3), REGULATING                      THE REQUIREMENTS            FOR
 PRIVATE OR QUASI -PUBLIC SCHOOLS, AMENDMENT PROPOSED BY RIVERTON
                                                    CITY.


     WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing to consider said text
amendment and forwarded a recommendation to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said text amendment;
and


       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
public amend Riverton City Code Section 18. 195. 060( 3) as described in Exhibit " A".

           NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah as
follows:


           Section 1.   Riverton City Code Section 18. 195. 060( 3), shall be, and hereby is, amended as
                        shown in Exhibit " A."


       Section 2. Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

       PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 161h day of
July, 2024 by the following vote:

                                                  YES     NO
       Councilmember             Tish Buroker

       Councilmember Tawnee McCay
       Councilmember Troy McDougal                              elxG(AsE%d
       Councilmember Andy Pierucci
       Councilmember Spencer Haymond



                                                  RIVERTON      CITY
            r *                     z{
                                    U
                  LERTV N
       ti{
ATTE • *****        194-7 ***#
                                                  Tre
                                                         z
                                                         Staggs, Mayor




       Larsen,     Recorder
Exhibit " A"



18. 195.060 Special standards and considerations governing particular uses.
3) Private or Quasi -Public School. Conditional use approval of private or quasi -public schools shall
only be given based on the following conditions and considerations:
      a) If the private or quasi -public school includes boarding facilities, the city may impose such
      limitations as the city believes to be in the public interest relating to the sex, age, and
      number of students that may be boarded or otherwise participate in the schooling and
      other services provided by the school. The city may also impose student -to -staff ratio
      requirements      for the school.

       b) The number of students allowed to attend or to be boarded at a private or quasi -public
      school shall be determined based, in part, on the size of the parcel of property on which the
      school is to be located.

               i) The minimum property required for any private or quasi -public school shall be tree
           one ( 1)   acres. More acreage s   may be required for larger facilities as determined by
           the city.
       c) Private or quasi -public schools shall only be allowed by Conditional Use Permit in
      residential zones where adjacent to a collector or arterial roadway, as designated in the
      Riverton City Master Transportation Plan. This does not include roadways designated as
       minor    collector"   streets.


      d) The city may further restrict the location of private or quasi - public schools in the interest
      of the community. Such restrictions shall include not allowing private or quasi -public schools
     to be located in close proximity to similar schools and facilities or to facilities,
     improvements, or developments that may be impacted by such schools or that may create
     potential risks or problems for the schools or area residents. Potential impacts such as
     traffic, noise, parking, emergency response, stormwater, etc. shall be identified during the
     conditional use permit review process and mitigation identified and proposed. Private or
     quasi - public schools shall not be allowed on local or private streets.




                                                    2
                                          CERTIFICATE OF POSTING



       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby Certify that

the foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 13 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 16t' day of July

2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:



       1.      City Hall

       2.      Public Notice Website




       Dated this 16th day of July 2024.


               VERTph         C"
                     SF„`«*        wit'
                                                Jami   Larsen, Recorder
      JY * ,

             947
        ij, ****
                0'P UTAN




                                                       3
