                                    RIVERTON         CITY, UTAH
                                     ORDINANCE           NO. 24- 14


  AN ORDINANCE          AMENDING       TITLE 11, CHAPTER              5 OF THE RIVERTON         CITY
 MUNICIPAL         CODE RELATING        TO REGULATIONS                APPLICABLE      TO RIVERTON
                                           CITY PARKS


       WHEREAS,        Utah Code    Section    10- 8- 2 ( 1)   authorizes   the Riverton City Council to
 purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey, and dispose of real and personal property," and to
 improve, protect, and do any other thing in relation to this property that an individual could do;"
and


        WHEREAS, Title 11 Chapter 5 of the Riverton City Municipal Code (" RCMC")
regulates the public' s use of public property such as parks; and

       WHEREAS, specifically, RCMC Section 11. 05. 010 prohibits the ignition of fires in park
property but does not explicitly prohibit the discharge of fireworks in the same; and

        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the discharge of
fireworks in park areas inevitably leads to the ignition of fires, and the tacit permission to ignite
fireworks is inconsistent with the determination that fires ought to be banned in city parks; and

       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that a strict prohibition
against discharge of fireworks in city parks is necessary to protect the City' s assets against fire
damage; and better enables all members of the public to use and enjoy park space without
concern for their safety;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah
as follows:


        Section 1.      Section 11. 05. 010 of the RCMC is hereby amended as described in the
                        attached Exhibit A, incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 2.      All other ordinances in conflict with or inconsistent with this ordinance
                        are hereby repealed.

        Section   3.    This Ordinance shall take effect on July 31, 2024.

                                        Remainder of page left blank.]
          PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 161h day of
July, 2024 by the following vote:

                                           YES      NO
          Councilmember Tish Buroker
          Councilmember Spencer Haymond
          Councilmember Tawnee McCay
          Councilmember Troy McDougal                      xc.usec
          Councilmember Andy Pierucci

                                                    RIVERTON       CITY
                 SEAL]


          ATTEST:
                                                    Tren   aggs,




          Jam# Larsen, Recorder
      L




                                               F)
                                              Exhibit A




11. 05. 010 Unlawful use.


Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the city or unless authority
is granted by provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city now or hereafter enacted, it
shall be a class B misdemeanor for any person to:

 1) Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate or maintain over, under, across, in or through any
property owned or controlled by this city.

2) Enter upon any property of this city contrary to posting or marking restricting or prohibiting
use of the area.


 3) Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of the municipality which materially impairs,
alters, or damages the property.

 4) Operate any motor vehicle on any portion of property owned or controlled by the city which
is not a roadway or parking lot.

 5) Transport glass containers out of vehicles and onto park property.

 6) Permit the walking or riding of horses on park property unless located in a designated rodeo
arena.




 7) Ignite fires on park property unless located in a designated fire pit or grill.

 8) Discharge any firearms, firecrackers, torpedoes, powder or any other fireworks or explosives
within the boundaries of any park located within the municipal territory of city, with the
exception of authorized salutes.


 9) Conduct any golfing related activities. [ Ord. 15- 05 § 1. Code 1997 § 8- 1- 11.]




                             Remainder of page intentionally left blank.]
                                         Legislative Copy


11. 05. 010 Unlawful use.


Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the city or unless authority
is granted by provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city now or hereafter enacted, it
shall be a class B misdemeanor for any person to:


 1) Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate or maintain over, under, across, in or through any
property owned or controlled by this city.

 2) Enter upon any property of this city contrary to posting or marking restricting or prohibiting
use of the area.


 3) Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of the municipality which materially impairs,
alters, or damages the property.

 4) Operate any motor vehicle on any portion of property owned or controlled by the city which
is not a roadway or parking lot.

 5) Transport glass containers out of vehicles and onto park property.

 6) Permit the walking or riding of horses on park property unless located in a designated rodeo
arena.




 7) Ignite fires on park property unless located in a designated fire pit or grill.

 8) Discharge any firearms firecrackers torpedoes powder or any other fireworks or explosives
within the boundaries of the municipal territory of the city, with the exception of authorized
salutes.




    Conduct any golfing related activities. [ Ord. 15- 05 § 1. Code 1997 § 8- 1- 11.]




                                                    El
                                           CERTIFICATE   OF POSTING



        I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 14 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on
the 16th day of July 2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following
locations:


        1.   City Hall

        2.   Public Notice Website




Dated this 16th day of June 2024.


                  ERT0,




        1.
              MV
                   S
                   rsen, Recorder*



                    A H
                            N
                                ty
                                1'`}
                                                4Jam*
                                       1
                  g47 ***

              TFO UTp! r/




                                                         5
