                                         RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                         ORDINANCE NO. 24- 22


   AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 18. 225, " ACCESSORY STRUCTURES,"
      REGULATING USE OF STORAGE/ CARGO CONTAINERS AS DESCRIBED,
                       AMENDMENTS          PROPOSED BY RIVERTON CITY.


      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing to consider said text
amendment and forwarded a recommendation to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said text amendment;
and


        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
public amend Riverton City Code Section 18. 225 as described in Exhibit " A".

        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah
as follows:


        Section 1.    Riverton City Code Section 18. 225 shall be, and hereby is, amended as shown
                      in Exhibit " A."


        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 121h day of
November, 2024 by the following vote:

                                                YES   NO
        Councilmember Tish Buroker
        Councilmember       Spencer Haymond     s


        Councilmember Tawnee McCay
        Councilmember Troy McDougal
        Councilmember Andy Pierucci



                                                RIVERTON        CITY




                     Ur re-N *    1
ATTES         s *****1947 *****
                                                Tre   Staggs,
               4jF0)  F u




JaTiie Larsen, Recorder
Exhibit " A"


                                           Chapter 18. 225


                                    ACCESSORY      STRUCTURES




Sections:
18. 225. 020   General standards.
18. 225. 030   Location of accessory structures.
18. 225. 040   Architectural standards.
18. 225. 050   Agricultural structures.
18. 225. 060   Carports/ temporary vehicle storage.
18. 225. 070   Swimming pools.
18. 225. 080   Accessory dwelling units.
18. 225. 020    General   standards.

 1) General Standards. In addition to the use limitations and other regulations for the zoning
district in which the accessory structure is proposed, no accessory use, building, or structure shall
be allowed unless it complies with the following requirements:

     a) All accessory structures shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal use and/ or
    structure on the property.

     b) An accessory structure shall be under the same ownership or control as the principal
    structure and/ or use on the property.

     c) No accessory structure shall be established or constructed before the main dwelling or
    structure is under construction, and no accessory structure shall be occupied prior to issuance
    of a certificate of occupancy for the main dwelling or structure.

     d) No accessory structure shall include a residential dwelling, nor may an accessory
    structure be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling, except as provided in RCC
    18. 225. 080.


     e) All accessory structures shall comply with any and all applicable standards and
    requirements of the International Building and Fire Codes.

     f) Play structures less than 15 feet in height and with a covered and/ or enclosed floor area of
    less than 30 square feet are exempt from the general restrictions of this chapter, but must
    comply with all setback requirements for accessory structures.

     g) It shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner to obtain a release from the utility
    companies and any other entity holding rights to public utility or other easements on the
    property prior to any construction within those areas.

     h) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment are

    prohibited, but may be used as the internal structure of an accessory building as described in
    18. 225. 040( 3)( b)( i). All other applicable provisions of this Code also apply. Storage

                                                   W
    containers may not be stacked. Temporary storage containers may be used during a move
    provided they are placed on private property and not in the public right-of-way. Temporary
    containers may not be present on the property for more than seven days. [ Ord. 21- 20 § 1
     Exh. A); Ord. 19- 21 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 11- 15 §     1 ( Exh. A).]

18. 225. 030   Location of accessory structures.
 1) Measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be from the foundation of
the accessory building to property line, or to foundation of the main dwelling.

2) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from the main dwelling.

3) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.

 4) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without
written permission to encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.

5) Front Yards. All accessory structures are prohibited within any required front yard area, and
no accessory structure shall extend within 10 feet of the front plane of the main dwelling.

6) Side Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side
property line, except as follows:

     a) All accessory structures located between the main structure and the side property line
    shall maintain the same side yard setback as required for the main structure.

     b) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard
    setback as required for the main dwelling.

     c) Single -story accessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height
    shall be located a minimum of one foot from the side property lines, provided no portion of
    the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to the property.

     d) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/ or including a second floor or story shall
    have a minimum side yard setback of 15 feet.

7) Rear Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear
property line, except as follows:

     a) Single -story accessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height
    shall be located a minimum of one foot from the rear property line, provided no portion of
    the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to the property.

     b) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/ or including a second floor or story shall
    have a minimum rear yard setback of 15 feet. [ Ord. 21- 20 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 20- 31 §   1 ( Exh.
    A); Ord. 20- 21 §   1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 11- 15 §   1 ( Exh. A).]

18. 225. 040   Architectural     standards.

 1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the
footprint of the principal structure ( house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all
accessory structure( s) on any parcel shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area, with any
private lane as approved by Riverton City excluded from the lot area.

2) Maximum Height.


     a) The maximum height of accessory structures shall be 20 feet. On property of at least
    10, 000 square feet the maximum height may be up to 25 feet.

     b) Accessory structures on property below one- third acre ( 14, 000 square feet) in size shall
    be limited to one story. Unfinished storage areas under the roof trusses may be permitted, but
    shall not include finished walls or ceiling, or utilities such as plumbing or electrical not
    associated with mechanical    equipment. Access to such unfinished storage areas shall not

    include stairs, and shall utilize ladder access only. On property of at least one-third acre and
    zoned R-3, R-2, RR- 22, R- 1, or A-5, a second story may be allowed.

     c) Height shall be measured from finished grade to the highest point on the structure.

 3) Exterior Materials and Design. Architectural standards, including general appearance,
building materials, and color, shall be as follows:

     a) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less shall be consistent in color and design
    with the main dwelling.

     b) Accessory structures greater than 200 square feet shall utilize only exterior building
    materials that are present on the main dwelling, excluding trim and nonarchitectural
    elements, structural materials, and prohibited materials. Colors shall be similar in tone and
    complementary to those used on the main dwelling. Wood or wood product siding, exposed
    plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited as exterior
    materials. Fiber -cement siding and aluminum or other metal siding may be substituted for
    vinyl siding if such siding is similar in color and appearance to the vinyl siding used on the
    main dwelling, as approved by the planning manager.

        i) Where a storage/ cargo container is utilized as the interior structure of an accessory
    building, it must have exterior materials attached compliant with this Section. Door(s) and
    the container roof do not require exterior treatment, but the door( s) must be painted in a
    single color and free from logos or alphanumeric    characters.   The storage/ cargo container

    must also comply with all required setbacks and provisions of this Code.

     c) Accessory structures greater than 1, 200 square feet shall include a minimum of 20
    percent of the front exterior walls, and of the street side( s) of a corner lot, in masonry such as
    brick or stone same type, coloring, and/ or style as on the main dwelling.

         i) On property of at least one acre and zoned RR- 22, R- 1, or A- 5, split -face or honed
        block may be used in place of stucco or other materials, but may not be substituted for
        any required brick, stone or other masonry consistent with that used on the home.

    d) For accessory structures greater than 200 square feet where exterior materials on the
    main dwelling consist exclusively of masonry such as brick or stone, the exterior side of the
    accessory structure facing the front of the lot shall be entirely masonry of the same type and
    style on the main dwelling. For the remaining sides, the lower one- third of each side shall be
                                                   4
    masonry as used on the front elevation, and the remaining exterior may consist of stucco
    and/ or vinyl or fiber -cement siding that is complementary to the main dwelling in color and
    design. [ Ord. 22- 09 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 21- 20 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 20- 31 §   1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 20-
    21 §   1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 18- 14 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 12- 26 § 1 ( Exh. A); Ord. 11- 15 § 1 ( Exh. A).]


18. 225. 050     Agricultural structures.
 1) Agricultural Structures. Accessory structures constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre
and used exclusively for agricultural use, defined as exclusively for the growing of plants
 greenhouses),  the storage of farm animals and/ or feed, as defined by ordinance, or of equipment
used for commercial agricultural production on parcels of at least 20 acres. Agricultural
structures shall comply with the requirements of this chapter except as follows:

     a) Agricultural structures for animals must be designed such that the primary function of the
    structure is the keeping of farm animals and/ or feed. Structures for the growing of plants
    shall be designed exclusively for that use, including exterior materials.

     b) Agricultural   structures above 20 feet in height shall be located a minimum of 15 feet

    from side and rear property lines. Agricultural structures 20 feet or below shall be located a
    minimum of 10 feet from property line. Agricultural structures shall, if located on a corner
    lot, comply with standard corner lot setback requirements.

     c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.
     d) Maximum height of agricultural      structures shall be 35 feet, with the exception of

    greenhouses, which may not exceed 20 feet in height.

 e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such exterior
building materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the main dwelling and
to the surrounding community. Greenhouses must utilize translucent or transparent material
designed to allow increased sunlight as the primary exterior material, including roofing material.
Where a storage/ cargo container is used as an agricultural structure, exterior building materials
are required, except for door( s) and roof areas.
                                   CERTIFICATE           OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby Certify

that the foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 22 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 12th day

of November 2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:


       1.   City Hall

       2.   Public Notice    Website




       Dated this 12th day of November 2024.

                   ERrc-ti

        1j (                               Jarni         Larsen, Recorder

                   rRHt/ y*

                  947 ******   0
             r
                 OF U' r




                                                   rol
