                                      RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                          ORDINANCE        NO. 24- 25


      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING RIVERTON CITY CODE TITLE 5, CHAPTER 30,
       SECTIONS O10 TO 140; RENUMBERING SAME TO TITLE 9, CHAPTER 35,
             SECTIONS 010 TO 140; AND AMENDING PROVISIONS RELATED TO
                          ADMINISTRATION,            FEES AND PENALTIES


                                          CITY ALARM CODE]


         WHEREAS, Riverton City is charged with the duty to protect the health, safety and
welfare of its community; and

         WHEREAS, public safety services provided by Riverton City rely, in part, on receiving
communications      from alarm service providers in the event an alarm is triggered in a Riverton
business or residence; and


         WHEREAS, conversely, public safety services provided by Riverton City are adversely
affected in the event a false alarm communication is relayed to the Riverton Police Department
from a Riverton business or residence;      and


         WHEREAS, false alarm communications               are often the product of malfunctioning alarm
systems which are not repaired in a timely manner, or repeated operator error, and should therefore
be regarded as avoidable problems; and

         WHEREAS, Riverton City Code Sections 5. 30. 010 to 140 ( the City Alarm Code) regulates
the    use    of fire   alarm   systems    which   alert   the   Riverton   Police   Department   through
telecommunications;      and


         WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the City Alarm Code
needs to be updated to enable a renewed effort by the Riverton Police Department to reduce the
number of false alarm calls it receives annually; and

         WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the following action is
in the best interest of the City' s health, safety and general welfare.

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Riverton City Council as follows:

Section 1.        Amendment. The following Code Section is hereby amended:

                  Title 5, Chapter 30, Sections 010 to 140 is hereby renumbered as Title 9,
                  Chapter 35, Sections 010 to 140, respectively.

Section 2.        Adoption. Title 9, Chapter 35, Sections 010 to 140, is hereby reenacted and
                  adopted as provided in the Attached Exhibit A.
      PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 121h day of
November 2024 by the following vote:

                                                 YES   NO

      Councilmember          Tish Buroker        V/`


       Councilmember           Spencer Haymond

       Councilmember Tawnee McCay
      Councilmember Troy McDougal
      Coined' —0ftr, Andy Pierucci

                         Sx*''.
                                                 RIVERTON    CITY



                     r




ATTES
        1A ***,*
                    94j **«*
          9 F *******
                                j,i
                                                 Tre   Staggs, Mayor

                   OP UTAN



Jamie Larsen, Recorder
Exhibit A
9. 35. 010 Purpose.


To protect the emergency services of the city from misuses. This chapter governs
intrusion and physical duress alarm systems, requires permits and registration,
establishes fees, provides for the allocation of revenues and deficits, provides for
revocation of the permit, provides for punishment of violations and establishes and
system of administration.

9. 35. 020 Definitions.

As used in this chapter:


 Alarm business" means the business of any individual, partnership, corporation or other
entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, monitoring, repairing, altering, replacing,
removing, moving, installing, planning the installation, or assisting in planning the
installation of any alarm system or causing any of the above to occur, whether in or on
any building, structure, facility or premises.

 Alarm system" means any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent attention and
to which peace officers are expected to respond.

Alarm user" means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization thereof of any kind in control of a building, structure or facility wherein an
alarm system is maintained.


Automatic dialing device" means a device which is interconnected to a telephone line
and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit by voice
message or code signal any emergency message indicating a need for emergency
response.



Burglar Alarm Certification Act (Section 13- 18- 1 et seq., Utah Code Annotated 1953).
This chapter is promulgated pursuant to Section 13_1_- 18( 4), Utah Code Annotated
1953, to require   users of alarm systems   and alarm companies   to meet reasonable

equipment and performance standards concerning false alarms.

 Coordinator" means the individual designated by the police chief to issue permits and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.

 False alarm" means an alarm signal eliciting a response by peace officers when a
situation requiring a response by them or other emergency response unit in fact does
not exist. It includes an alarm signal caused by conditions of nature which are normal
for that area and subject to control by the alarm business operator or alarm user. " False
alarm" does not include an alarm signal caused by extraordinarily violent conditions of
nature not reasonably subject to control.
Interconnect" means to connect an alarm system, including an automatic dialing
device, to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device that utilizes a
telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit a message upon the
activation    of the alarm system.


 Intrusion alarm system" means an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the system.

Local alarm" means any noise -making alarm device.

 Physical duress system" means an alarm system signaling a robbery or other physical
endangerment.


 Police chief" means the chief of the Riverton police department, or his designated
representative.



 Primary trunk line" means a telephone line serving the VECC system or sheriff dispatch
that is designated to receive emergency calls.

 VECC and dispatch" are the governmental facilities used to receive emergency and
general information from the public to be dispatched to the Riverton Police Department.

9. 35.030 Registration required to operate an intrusion or physical duress alarm
system       business.


 1) It is unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or association to own, manage,
conduct or carry on the business of selling, leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, moving or removing, or causing to be sold, leased, installed,
serviced, maintained, repaired, replaced, moved or removed, in or on any building,
residence or other property within the city any device known as an intrusion or physical
duress alarm system, or automatic dialing device connected to an answering service,
unless there exists a valid security certificate therefor, granted and subsisting in
compliance with the provisions of the Burglar Alarm Certification Act and the name,
address and certificate number or I. D. card number registered with the Riverton police
department as provided in this chapter.

 2) The fee for an intrusion or physical duress alarm system business license shall be
that prescribed in a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City Council.
9. 35. 040 Alarm    user registration   required.


Any alarm user shall register their name, address and other identifying information with
the Riverton Police Department on forms issued by the department before engaging
directly in the selling, leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining, repairing, moving or
removing any alarm system in or on any building or other property within the city. There
shall be no fee for registration under this section. Any alarm user who successfully
completes the registration process shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued
by the Riverton Police Department.

9. 35. 050 Registration      procedure for alarm businesses.

Every alarm business and its employees shall annually register their name, address
business name and other identifying information with the Riverton Police Department on
forms issued by the department. There shall be no fee for registration under this
section. Any alarm business or employee who successfully completes the registration
process shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued by the Riverton Police
Department.


9. 35. 060 Alarm user permits to be available for inspection.
 1) Every alarm user shall have on their premises, or in their possession, an alarm user
permit issued by the Riverton Police Department and make the same available for
inspection by the Riverton Police Department at such times as the alarm user' s
associated business is open to the public.

2) It is unlawful    for an alarm business    to report, or cause to be reported,    to the Riverton

Police Department or other emergency service agency the activation of any alarm
system on any premises for which the alarm user has not obtained an alarm user
permit.

9. 35. 070 Alarm user permit required before operation of alarm.

 1) An alarm user permit shall be issued by the Riverton Police Department prior to the
continuous      operation   of the system.   This section shall not be applied to prohibit
momentary operation related to testing or maintenance of an alarm system.

 2) The alarm user permit shall set forth the full name, address and telephone number
of both the owner or lessee on whose premises the system will be installed, operated,
connected or maintained, and the name of the person or licensed alarm system
business installing, maintaining or servicing the system, as well as the type of system to
be installed,    operated   or maintained.   The card shall further contain the names,

addresses and telephone numbers of three individuals who may be contacted by peace
officers responding to an alarm. The persons listed shall have authority to act for the
alarm user in granting peace officers access to any portion of the premises concerned
and shall be knowledgeable         in the basic operation   of the alarm system.    The alarm user

permit shall contain such additional information as the Riverton Police Department shall
reasonably deem necessary to properly identify and locate the user, the alarm business
installing, servicing or maintaining the alarm system, and the persons to be contacted in
the event of the filing of an alarm report.
3) A service fee may be assessed upon a user when the peace officers responding to
an alarm are unable to contact any of the listed parties due to outdated or inaccurate
information provided by the user; or if none of the listed parties are available; or if the
listed parties fail to respond to the scene within 30 minutes of notice. The service fee
shall be set by a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City Council and may
be considered as a second instance for the computing of fees should the cause of the
alarm be false.

 4) In addition to submitting the alarm information card, users of audible outside local
alarm systems shall post near the alarm, and at a position readable from ground level, a
code number furnished by the alarm coordinator to allow reference to the alarm
information card required by this section. All such audible or visual alarm devices shall
be equipped with an automatic cutoff device which will terminate the audible or visual
alarm within 30 minutes.


9. 35. 080 Alarm   business   call records.


Alarm businesses    who request the Riverton   Police Department' s response   to alarm

signals shall maintain a record of all such calls, stating the time, date, location of the
alarm and the name, address and phone number of the alarm user. The records shall
indicate the cause of the alarm, if known. This record shall be current and shall be made

available to the police chief or his designated representative at any time during normal
business hours.

9. 35. 090 User instructions.

 1)   Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing to any user an alarm system
which is installed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall furnish
the alarm user with written instructions that provide information to enable the user to
operate the alarm system properly.

 2) Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing to any user an alarm system
which is installed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall notify in
writing the alarm user of this chapter' s alarm user permit requirement within five
business days of sale or installation. The notice shall be addressed to the alarm user,

or, if the user is a business entity, to its manager or designated person in charge, and
shall contain the user' s telephone number ( if known) and the street location of the

premises on which the alarm system is installed. A copy of such notice shall be mailed
or delivered to the Riverton Police Department, Attention: Alarm Systems Coordinator,
12810 South Redwood Road, Riverton, UT 84065, at the same time the original notice
is sent.
9. 35. 100 City liability limitations.

The city shall not be liable for any defects in operation of burglar or robbery alarm
systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt of an alarm
nor for the failure or neglect of any persons registered or issued a permit pursuant to
this chapter in connection with the installation, operation or maintenance of the
equipment necessary to or incident to the operation of such systems. In the event the
city finds it necessary to order the system disconnected, the city shall incur no liability
for such action.

9. 35. 110 False alarms.


  1) Any alarm user which has seven or more false alarms within any twelve consecutive
month period shall be subject to revocation, assessments and/ or criminal penalties
described in RCC .           Revocation of a user permit shall be in accordance with the
license revocation provisions specified in this code, as amended.

2) A service fee is imposed for false alarms on a physical duress or intrusion alarm
system to which peace officers respond. The fee is assessed on the user of the alarm
system after three false alarms have occurred in any twelve consecutive month period.
The amount of the fee is established under a fee schedule adopted annually by the
Riverton City Council.

 4) All service fees assessed under this chapter are due and payable on the date written
notice of any fee due is issued by the city treasurer. If any service fee is not paid within
30 days of the due date, a penalty shall be added to each service fee in an amount
established under a fee schedule adopted annually by the Riverton City Council.           The

city may use such lawful means as are available to collect such fee, including all
penalties, costs and attorney fees.

9. 35. 120 Interagency communications.

A central station or other alarm dispatch center must provide the Riverton Police
Department' s dispatch a toll -free telephone number for the conducting of business and
contacting the central station dispatchers at the time of filing the alarm report
9. 35. 130 Deliberate   false alarms.


No person shall cause to be transmitted any intrusion or physical duress alarm knowing
the same to be false or without basis in fact. A violation of this section is a class B
misdemeanor.


9. 35. 140 Penalties.


 1)Unless otherwise stated in this title, any person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction.
   Exhibit A


Legislative Copy)
6409. 35. 010 Purpose.


To protect the emergency services of the city from misuses. This chapter governs
intrusion and physical duress alarm systems, requires permits and registration,
establishes fees, provides for the allocation of revenues and deficits, provides for
revocation of the permit, provides for punishment of violations and establishes and
system of administration. [ Cede 1997 § 9 ^ 71

5409. 35. 020 Definitions.

As used in this chapter:


Alarm business" means the business of any individual, partnership, corporation or other
entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, monitoring, repairing, altering, replacing,
removing, moving, installing, planning the installation, or assisting in planning the
installation of any alarm system or causing any of the above to occur, whether in or on
any building, structure, facility or premises.

Alarm system" means any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent attention and
to which peace officers are expected to respond.

 Alarm user" means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization thereof of any kind in control of a building, structure or facility wherein an
alarm   system   is maintained.


Automatic dialing device" means a device which is interconnected to a telephone line
and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit by voice
message or code signal any emergency message indicating a need for emergency
response.



Burglar Alarm Certification Act ( Section 13- 18- 1 et seq., Utah Code Annotated 1953)
This chapter is promulgated pursuant to Section 13- 18- 18( 4), Utah Code Annotated
1953, to require users of alarm systems and alarm companies to meet reasonable

equipment and performance standards concerning false alarms.

 Coordinator" means the individual designated by the police chief to issue permits and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.

 False alarm" means an alarm signal eliciting a response by peace officers when a
situation requiring a response by them or other emergency response unit in fact does
not exist. It includes an alarm signal caused by conditions of nature which are normal
for that area and subject to control by the alarm business operator or alarm user. " False
alarm" does not include an alarm signal caused by extraordinarily violent conditions of
nature not reasonably subject to control.
 Interconnect" means to connect an alarm system, including an automatic dialing
device, to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device that utilizes a
telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit a message upon the
activation of the alarm system.


Intrusion alarm system" means an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the system.

Local alarm" means any noise -making alarm device.

 Physical duress system" means an alarm system signaling a robbery or other physical
endangerment.


 Police chief' means the chief of the Riverton police department, or his designated
representative.



 Primary trunk line" means a telephone line serving the VECC system or sheriff dispatch
that is designated to receive emergency calls.

VECC and dispatch" are the governmental facilities used to receive emergency and
general information from the public to be dispatched to the Riverton p.Eolice
Ddepartment.



5409. 35. 030 Registration required to operate an intrusion or physical duress
alarm system business.


 1) It is unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or association to own, manage,
conduct or carry on the business of selling, leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, moving or removing, or causing to be sold, leased, installed,
serviced, maintained, repaired, replaced, moved or removed, in or on any building,
residence or other property within the city any device known as an intrusion or physical
duress alarm system, or automatic dialing device connected to an answering service,
unless there exists a valid security certificate therefor, granted and subsisting in
compliance with the provisions of the Burglar Alarm Certification Act and the name,
address and certificate number or I. D. card number registered with the Riverton police
department as provided in this chapter.

 2) The fee for an intrusion or physical duress alarm system business license shall be
that prescribed in -a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City Council.


6409. 35. 040 Alarm user                              registration required.

it is unlawful for   Any alarm user
                                                                            shall   register
4stheir name address   and other identifying information with the Riverton Police Department
on forms issued by the department before te-
                                           engaginn a directly in the selling,
leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining, repairing, moving or removing any alarm
system in or on any building or other property within the city aR

d 1. D. GaFd number eri}h the RiVer}„ n              nnliGe rdor agrnon+ There     shall be no fee for registration

under this section. Any alarm b s' Re66 ^r                               eny4 eeuser   who successfully completes

the registration process                   shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued by
the Riverton Ppolice dDepartment. [Ord. 03 4 §2.G ado 1997 § 9_4 7 6.


409.35.050 Registration procedure for alarm businesses. Every

alarm business and its employees shall annually register their name, address business
name and other identifying information with the Riverton PPolice Ddepartment on
forms issued by the department. There                shall be no fee for registration under this section.
Any alarm business or employee who successful y completes the registration process
shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued by the Riverton Ppolice Ddepartment.
and                    eGUri}     v nor} ifinn} o n, amber er 1 D Gard ni rnber Seri}h the Diver} nn pvrrc.

eueprn- rr-
          rr T-[          vrcr—   14   §    2    5


09. 35. 060 Alarm user permits to be available for inspection. 1)

 Every alarm user shall have on their premises, or in their possession, an alarm user permit
issued by the Riverton pPolice Ddepartment and make the same available for inspection
by              the Riverton Police        Department at        such times as the alarm user' s as ociated
business          is              open to the public. 2)

 It    is unlawful for an alarm business to report, or              cause to be reported, to          the Riverton Ppolice

Ddepartment or other emergency service agency the activation of any alarm system
on any premises for which the alarm user has not obtained an alarm user permit. [^
i3        14 §   2. Glide 1997- 9
                                §  n 7& i 5-.

W9. 35.070 Alarm user permit required before operation of alarm. 1)

     An alarm user permit shall be issued by the 6
brnotte d to the Riverton Ppolice Ddepartment' alarm

system prior to the continuous operation of the system. This                             section shall not be applied
to prohibit momentary operation related to testinq or maintenance of an alarm s
sy    2)
      te


 Thi= s-
       The alarm user permit Gard -shall set forth the full name, address and telephone number
of both the owner or lessee on whose premises the system will be instal ed, operated,
connected or maintained, and the name of the person or licensed alarm system
business installing, maintaining or servicing the system, as well as the type of
system to be installed,    operated      or maintained.   The card shall further contain the

names, addresses and telephone numbers of three individuals who may be contacted
by peace officers responding to an alarm. The persons listed shall have authority to act
for the alarm user in granting peace officers access to any portion of the premises
concerned and shall be knowledgeable in the basic operation of the alarm system. The
alarm user permit alarm input              shall contain such additional information as the

Riverton p.Eolice Ddepartment shall reasonably deem necessary to properly identify and
locate the user, the alarm business installing, servicing or maintaining the alarm system,
and the persons to be contacted in the event of the filing of an alarm report.

3) A service fee may be assessed upon a user when the peace officers responding to
an alarm are unable to contact any of the listed parties due to outdated or inaccurate
information provided by the user; or if none of the listed parties are available; or if the
listed parties fail to respond to the scene within 30 minutes of notice. The service fee
shall be determined ""    set by- a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City
Ciounci treatiRg   the Vinlatinn _   c if it eiere a false alarm as provided in
RGG 5:_389. 35- 4C and may be considered as a second instance for the computing of
fees should the cause of the alarm be false.


4) In addition to submitting the alarm information card, users of audible outside local
alarm systems shall post near the alarm, and at a position readable from ground level, a
code number furnished by the alarm coordinator to allow reference to the alarm
information card required by this section. All such audible or visual alarm devices shall
be equipped with an automatic cutoff device which will terminate the audible or visual
alarm within 30 minutes. [ Ord. 2-3 14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9 4 77-.

5. 309. 35. 080 Alarm business call records Riverton ^ e' i^ e depaFt,, eAt ^ all reGOrds.


Alarm businesses who request the Riverton P-police Ddepartment' s response to alarm
signals shall maintain a record of all such calls, stating the time, date, location of the
alarm and the name, address and phone number of the alarm user. The records shall
indicate the cause of the alarm, if known. This record shall be current and shall be made

available to the police chief or his designated representative at any time during normal
business hours. rn        23—r4      z- Glde 4 997 R 9 4 762 5-.

309. 35. 090 User instructions. 1)


 Every alarm business selling, leasing   or furnishing to any user an alarm system which
is instal ed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall furnish the
alarm user with written instructions that provide information to enable the user to operate
the alarm system properly. 2)

Every alarm business selling,leasing or furnishing to any user an alarm system which
is instal ed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall notify in
writing the alarm user of this chapter' s alarm user permit requirement within five
business   days of sale or installation.             The notice shall be addressed    to the alarm user,

or, if the user is a business entity, to its manager or designated person in charge, and
shall contain the user' s telephone              number ( if known)    and the street location of the

premises on which the alarm system is installed. A copy of such notice shall be mailed
or delivered to the Riverton Police Department, Attention: Alarm Systems Coordinator,
12810 South       Redwood        Road,      Riverton,     UT 84065, at the same time the original     notice
                                                      a
is sent. [ Ord    23    14 §   2. (; Gde    1997 §


6-.309. 35. 100 City liability limitations.

The city shall not be liable for any defects in operation of burglar or robbery alarm
systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt of an alarm
nor for the failure or neglect of any persons registered or issued a permit pursuant to
this chapter in connection              with the installation,   operation or maintenance    of the

equipment necessary to or incident to the operation of such systems. In the event the
city finds it necessary to order the system disconnected, the city shall incur no liability
for such action.

5-.309. 35. 110 False alarms.


 1) Any alarm user which has seven or more false alarms within a -any twelve
consecutive      month period GaleY char „ e7Y shall be subject to revocation,              assessments
and/ or criminal penalties described               in RCC 5- 309. 35_<' ` . Revocation of a user permit
shall be in accordance with the license revocation provisions specified in this code, as
amended.


 2) A service fee is imposed for false alarms on a physical duress or intrusion alarm
system to which peace officers respond. The fee is assessed on the user of the alarm
system after three false alarms have occurred in any twelve consecutive month period.

wNGheyer l Ornes fire+ The amount of the fee is established under a fee schedule

adopted annually by the Riverton City Council. $ 15. 00 for eaGh responding URit.

 3) The maximum sseip.4ir--e flee that may be Gharged WRder this GeGtien based 9


 a) ResideRtial        throe   i Rite




 4) All service fees assessed under this chapter are due and payable on the date written
notice of any fee due is issued by the city treasurer. If any service fee is not paid within
30 days of the due date, a penalty of$ 10. 00 shall be added to each $ 159Qservice fee
in an amount established under a fee schedule adopted annually by the Riverton City
Council. ,




total PeRalty of $ 39. 00. If aRY St-9RA.Gue f8t_- *6 ROt paid WithiR 129 days of the due date
                                              The city may use such lawful means as are
available to collect such fee, including all penalties, costs and attorney fees. ( AMeRded
daring 2011                  Code 1 Q97 § 9 444


5499. 35. 120 Interagency communications.

A central station or other alarm dispatch center must provide the Riverton p olice
Ddepartment' s dispatch a toll -free telephone number for the conducting of business and
contacting the central station dispatchers at the time of filing the alarm report. [ Ord. 23-
14 §
       2. Gede   1997   R 9_ 4_ 82 ]


5-.309. 35. 130 Deliberate false alarms.


No person shall cause to be transmitted any intrusion or physical duress alarm knowing
the same to be false or without basis in fact. A violation of this section is a class B
misdemeanor.




5_A9. 35. 140 Penalties.


 1) Unless otherwise stated in this title, aAny person who violates any provision of this
chapter(         be guilty of • -

2) All SeFViGe fees assessed WRdeF thus Ghapter are d6ie and payable 4th' R •            days
                                     CERTIFICATE         OF POSTING




        I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby Certify that the

foregoing Ordinance No. 24- 25 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 12' day of November

2024 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:

        1. City Hall

        2.   Public Notice Website




        Dated this 12" day of November 2024.




                                                 i




                                            Ja       Larsen, Recorder
