                                                RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                                 ORDINANCE          NO. 25- 12


    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY' S COMMERCIAL ARCHITECTURAL
     STANDARDS IN SECTIONS 18. 65. 060, 18. 70. 060, 18. 75. 050, 18. 80. 060, 18. 85. 060,
18. 95. 040, 18. 100. 060, AND 18. 215. 030 OF THE RIVERTON CITY CODE AS SHOWN IN
                EXHIBIT " A", AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY RIVERTON CITY.


        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have held a public hearing to
consider said text amendment; and


       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council on recommendation from the Commission has
determined that it is in the best interest of the public to amend Riverton City Code Sections
18. 65. 060, 18. 70. 060, 18. 75. 050, 18. 80. 060, 18. 85. 060, 18. 95. 040, 18. 100. 060, and 18. 215. 030
as described in Exhibit " A".


        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah
as follows:


        Section 1.             Riverton City Code Sections 18. 65. 060, 18. 70. 060, 18. 75. 050, 18. 80. 060,
                                18. 85. 060, 18. 95. 040, 18. 100. 060, and 18. 215. 030, shall be, and hereby are,
                               amended as shown in Exhibit " A.".


        Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 20th day of
May, 2025
        by the following vote:

                                                            YES      NO

        Councilmember Tish Buroker
        Councilmember Spencer Haymond
        Councilmember Tawnee McCay
        Councilmember Troy McDougal                           f
        C ouncilmeMber- Andv Pierucci




                                                            RIVERTON           CITY



              s3+ **
                         79g7
                         r*****.****



ATTEST: '
                       F o,.       r5t
                                                            Trent     taggs,     ayor




      e Larsen, Recorder
                                                                                                             Exhibit " A"




     Commercial Downtown
18. 65. 060 Architectural standards.



                        y as possible should be used to ereate a distinct turn of the eentury feel to the downtown.




those ntur,
elements of tupa of the eentury shoWEI be used. These desigqi standards -arid guidefineq-are-as

                                                r.,
                                                       found _in the ;...
                                                                                       a ., ,
                                                                                                                     r din,,-,,,*   m. ste emus.
                                                                                                                                                                          buildings.


encouraged to use as marty of the e features as passible. Other aeoeptaeUlV LVLLL Lfa VJ --                                                                                             listed
                                                                                       4. 1
hereini ean be found in the afehiteetural guidelines of the Rk,ef4eii City eefa---
                     nGl plan-.
   i) High Pitelied r of                                     S




   ii) Arched doorways                                           and windews-
                                                                           ele quoinT
                                                      eitheF bFiek, iviu            Luvu .•     ovu or ].v ivi, aw.

                                                                                                VL. i LiVµa       iVµiva L... f.




                                                                            viii)   Wick
                                                                 prove"


    1• the-
        (..)
                                                                                                                                      f,b y t,H1. u
                                                                                                   hVuneia                                            fiThe   following

                        y                                                 the          L tr                  after- toL iVVVYidnea] at./                                    standards


11Lrie,+]'                       LalJiLiL4iJ•




are U12ficable to all new or amended development in the C-
                                                         D Zone including but not
limited to primary and ac es oKy structures accent features and architectural art.1 Four-
sided
      architecure.   All sides of                                               a building that area en to public view includin views from adjacent
                     residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings) shall receive consistent architectural
                     design consideration. 2)
                                            2)Building
                                                 (
    Height.            Buildngs shall not exceed 50 feet in height, but shall not exceed 35 feet in height where
                     the building is within 100 feet of a residential zone. Height is measured from the primM finished
                     floor to the highest point of an roof peak. wall or to                       the top of any architectural feature.
                     Rooftop mechanical equipment, screens_safety railings, and other mechanical elements are
                     not included in building_ freight. 33) (3)     Bulk.


Commercial            buildngs shall be designed with architectural wall variations at least every 30 to
                     50 feet in linear width, depending on the size of the project. A horizontal architectural variation may
                     include the following: a.
                                             Primary Material
                       Change.
                               b.
                                A horizontal
                         shift   of at least 18-inches perpendicular to therimary plane.
   r




Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the roofline at least
evgy 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the following:
       a Changes in vertical height by at least 18- inches change in elevation.
       b Solid parapet walls. subject to the Horizontal variation re uirements listed above.
       c Variation in the rooflines by use of donner windows. overhangs, arches. stel2ped roofs,
           gables or other similar devices.




5) Exterior Su         es. Building Materials and Colors.




       a Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the exterior of
           the building and sball be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than two 2 types of
           materials per building.
                       i.   For properties/ projects located from 1830 West to 1300 West. and
                            between 12500 South and 12930 South brick, with color and tyj2e
                            a   roved by the City. shaIl be one of the required building materials.

       b Color of exterior building materials excluding accent colors shall be limited to no more
           than five 5 and no less than two 2 major colors Der development.
       c Bri lit colors such as neon or fluorescent colors, bri 7ht Drool >c or ellow .and rims
         colors, are only ermitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use Authority.
       d No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
       e   The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
        Glass is considered an Exterior Building Material but not a color. Glass used in windows
        ma be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found in Item 5. a.
        above at the discretion of the City.
   4) Architectural metal such as corrugated metal or similar material, and " rusted' or
      otherwise distressed look metal may be used on exterior building elevations as an accent
        not to exceed more than 20%      of any building side.

6) Prohibited Materials
   a Patterned stucco as a masona substitute.
   b Wood as a primaKy exterior finish material.
   c    Vinyl or aluminum sidin .
   d    Uncolored and/ or unfinished CM        block except as an accent material.
   e Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick, brick
        veneer, al2proved stone/ rock or an approved masonry component. Such tyl2es of walls are
        also acceptable where allowed/ re uired masonry patterns are integrated into the exterior
        side of the wall. Exceptions to this vnay be allowed by the City on side or rear walls in the
        Commercial Regional. Planned Commercial Center, and Li ht Industrial Zones.
   f)   Wood, including wood shingles, are not allowed as a roofing material.
7 Cohesion / Consistency

   a New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and
        consi stency with the adjacent and surroutid i ng commercial buildin s as determined b
        the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a review of
        the approvals and requirements of the original commercial building or original
        commercial center

            i.   In an existin   center or development for which a site plan was previgiisly
                 approved, a new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and identify
                 at least two ? major elements of consistency with the surrounding approved
                 center, including primary materials and architectural features.
           11    New or renovated standalone buildin s not previously Part of an Uproved center
                 or development) shall include and identify at least one 1 major element of
                 consistengy with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings
8) Mechanical Equipment.
   a All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
        e ui anent. Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land use authority
        as part of Site Plan approval.
   b WiLig walls, screens or other enclosures shall be integoted into the building and
     landscaping of the site, whether located on the around or roof.
   c Rooftopss of buildings shall be free of any mechanical a ui anent unless complete[
        screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6- ft high at the property lines,
        or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
       d Screening materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the Primm
           building.
       e All attached exterior utility boxes and a ui went roof drains conduit and pipin ,
           maintenance    stairs and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise
           treated to be consistent with underl in 7 adjacent material colors.


 Commercial Gateway
18. 70. 060 Architectural       standards.




                                                  r




The followine standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the C- G Zone
including but not limited to Rrimary and accessory structures, accent features, and architectural
art.
       1    Four- sided architecture.   All sides of a building that are o en to public view Oncludin
            views from adjacent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings
            shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.



 2) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height. Where a zero lot line is utilized
per RCC 18. 70. 040( 4), building height adjacent to the property line shall not exceed one story.
Height is measured from the primM finished floor to the highest point of any roof peak, parmet
wall or to the toI2 of any architectural feature. Rooftop mechanical a ui anent screens. safety
railings, and other mechanical elements are not included in building height.,
 3) Bulk. Commercial buildings shall be designed with architectural wall variations at least every
30 feet in linear width. Var-ialiens eauld implyndulati             in   roia"   l    aee OF additio
                                                                                     u _




awe .                                                                                      A horizontal

architectural variation ;nay include the following:
a.          Primary Material Change
b.          A horizontal shift of at least 18- inches peEpendicular to the Rrimary plane.

 4) Roof
 a) D., o
elemaents as approved by the planni --                                 ten.


b) Roof Materials. AppFopriate roofing materials shall be e,- aluated by the# anning de ar4m , n t.
Howevef
  4     Roofline. Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
following:
     a Chan es in vertical height by at least 18- inches than a in elevation.
     b Solid 12arapet walls, sub' ect to the Horizontal variation requirements listed above.
     c Variation in the rooflines by use of dormer windows, overhangs. arches stepl2ed roofs
                 gables or other similar devices.



 a) Pr-ateeted Lower- Wall. The lowef wall sliall be at least one third the4w4ght of the fif4 story -
This lower pei4iefi of the wall shall eensist of brick, tile, stone, deeefetive eindef blee
de         a+:
                    eoReFete.

                                                                                                                        x




      e               x
                                         and treated woo      However,
exteriorwall          may be glass.
 C) COlOF Palette. Exteriof! wall sur-faees shall be eonsistent with light earth toties foF Violorian

 5               Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
     a Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the exterior of
       the building and shall be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than two 2 types of
                 materials per building.
                                    i.      For propertieslproiects located from 1830 West to 1300 West. and
                                            between 12500 South and 12930 South. brick, with color and type
                                            a    roved by the City, shall be one of the req uired building materials.

     b Color of exterior building materials( excluding accent colors shall be limited to no more
       than five (5) and no less than two (2) major colors per development.
     c           Bright colors, such as neon or fluorescent colors bright orange or y0low, and prinjary
                 colors   areonl ermitted       as accent colors as determined by the Land use Autliorit . d
     No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color. e)
     The         roof shall not be considered a material or color. Glass
                 is considered an Exterior Building Material_but not a color. Glass used in windows may
                 be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found in Item 5.a. above
                 at the discretion of the City,
       Architectural metal such as corrugated metal or similar material and " rusted' or
       otherwise distressed look metal may be used on exterior building elevations, as an accent
       not to exceed more than 20%     of any building side.


       Prohibited Materials
        a       Pattemed stucco as a nlasonEy substitute.
        b)      Wood as a primary exterior finish material.
        c       Vinyl or aluminum siding.
        d       Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block exce t as an accent material.
        e       Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick
       brick veneer, approved stonelrock or an approved masona component. Such types of
       walls are also acceptable where allowed/ required masoM pattems are integrated into the
       exterior side of the wail. Exceptions to this may be allowed by the City on side or rear
       walls in the Commercial Re ional. Planned Commercial Center, and Light Industrial
       Zones.

                Wood including wood shingles are not allowed as a roofing material.
7) Cohesion /Consistency_
        a New or renovated commercial buiidin =s shall include elements of cohesion and
             consistency with the adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings as determined
             by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a
             review of the approvals and requirements of the original commercial building or
             original commercial center.
                   i   In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously
                       approved, a new or renovated commercial building, plan shall include and
                       identify at least two 2 major elements of consistency with the surrounding
                     approved center. including rime materials and architectural features.
                   2 New or renovated standalone buildings not previously part of an a roved
                     center or development) shall include and identify at least one 1 major
                       element of consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildin s

8)   Mechanical    Equipment.

     a All mechanical eq ui pment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
       equipment Screening methods and materials must be a roved by the land use autho6t
       as part of Site Plana roval.
     b Wing walls, screens or other enclosures shall be integrated into the building and
        landscaping of the site whether located on the ground or roof.
     c Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical equipment unless completely
        screened from all horizontal points of view. as seen from G- ft high at the property lines.
        or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
     d Screening, materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the prinuary
        buildin.
     e All attached exterior utility boxes and equipment. roof drains conduit and Piping,
        maintenance stairs and ladders and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise
        treated to be consistent with underl   in   adjacent material colors.
 Neighborhood Commercial
18. 75. 050 Architectural       standards.




                                   r
                                        e


                                              asIM
                                                                    a




The following standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the C- N Zone
including but not limited to primM and access                 structures, accent features, and architectural
art.
       1.   Four- sided architecture.       All sides of a building that are open to public view( including
            views from ad' acent residential dwellin s or potential location of residential dwellin s
            shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.



 32) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height. Height is measured from the
primmy finished floor to the highest point of any roof peak, parapet wall or to the top of all
architectural     feature.   Rooftop mechanical equipment, screens. safety railings, and other
mechanical elements are not included in building height.
43) Bulk. Commercial buildings shall be designed with horizontal architectural wall variations
at least every 20 feet in linear width.
                                                                                                   A

horizontal architectural wall variation may include the following:
a.          Primary Material Change.
b.          A horizontal shift of at least 1$-    inc:hes peMendicular to the priniaLl plane.
 54) Re4. Roofline
 a) R ..e ffin
and eonfemi to the building materials and afehiteeture of the over-all btlik4w,,--

4epth,


view at the elosest        a                      publie Fights of way by pampet walls or other- aFehiteettir-a
elementsv                         rrL. pz Lit FFf , FT avFLaiaa assav La.


                                                       Liu.




4         Roofline. Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
following:
      a Chan es in vertical height by at least 18- inches change in elevation.
      b) Solid parapet walls, subject to the Horizontal variation retluirClnents listed above.
      c Variation in the rooflines by use of dormer windows. overhangs.s. arches stepped roofs
          zables or other similar devices.

 5)     Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
      a Exterior Buildin Materials shall be considered any materials that make u ) the exterior of
          the building and shall be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than tu,o 2 tyl2es of
          materials per building.
                      i.       For properties/ projects located from 1830 West to 1300 West, and
                               between 12500 South and 12930 South. brick. with color and        e

                               a  roved by the City, shall be one of the required building materials.


      b Color of exterior building materials ( excluding accent colors shall be [ invited to no more
          than five 5 and no less than two 2 major colors 12er development.
      c Bright colors such as neon or fluorescent colors. bright orange or yellow. and rilna
        colors are only permitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use Authority.
      d No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
      e   The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
          Glass is considered an Exterior B ui Idi ng Material, but not a color. Glass used in windows
          may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found in Item 5. a.
          above at the discretion of the City.
          Architectural metal such as corrugated metal or similar material, and " rusted' or
          otherwise distressed look metal inav be used on exterior building elevations. as an accent
          not to exceed more than 20%               of any building side.
 6)       Prohibited Materials
           a      Patterned stucco as a masonry substitute.
           b      Wood as a primM exterior finish material.
           c)     Vinyl or aluminum siding,
           d      Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
        e)     Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick.
       brick veneer. approved stone/ rock or an approved masoM component. Such types of
       walls are also acceptable where allowed/ required masong pattems are integrated into the
       exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed by the City on side or rear
       walls in the Commercial Regional, Planned Commercial Center, and Light Industrial
       Zones.

                Wood, including wood shingles, are not allowed as a roofing, material.
7)   Coliesion 1 Consistency
         a New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and
             consistency with the adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings as determined
             by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a
             review of the approvals and requirements of the original commercial building or
             original commercial   center.
                   1   In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previousl
                       approved, a new or renovated commercial buildingl2lan shall include and
                                             major elements of consistency with the surrounding
                       identify at least two ?
                     approved center. including primary materials and architectural features.
                   2 New or renovated standalone buildings not previously part of an apRroved
                       center or development)    shall include and identifv at least one_( 1) major
                       element of consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings

8)   Mechanical Equipment.
     a All mechanical equipment sliall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
       equipment Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land use authorit
       as part of Site Plan approval.
     b Wing walls screens or other enclosures shall be rote rated into the building and
       landscaping of the site whether located on the ground or roof.
     c Rooftops ofbuildings shall be free of any mechanical a ui ment unless coin letel
        screened from all horizontal points of view. as seen from 6- ft high at the property lines.
        or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
     d Screening materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the primary
       building.
        All attached exterior utilit boxes and e ui ment roof drains, conduit and piping,
        maintenance stairs and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise
        treated to be consistent with underlying/ adjacent material colors.




                                                    10
 Commercial           Professional Office
18. 80. 060 Architectural standards.


the C PO zone. A Fninifnuffl ef flifee tufn of the eenttwy features shall be used in all

pessible. Othei- aceeptable features not listed herein Call be fftfid iH the aFehitestur-al guidelines
of the Riveiten Gity eemmer-eial distfiet                          LC[. Iitil I1+ u: 1.
                 building             L14.]   Igia.




 b) High pitehed roofs.
 e) AFehed doorways             and                   Yk   J.



                      1           t


 d) Decorative            leelE or-     L11   rlNVfA1N-




                  1
                                       rawided weed or- nee .

 0 Cleek t•.. weFs and othef vei4ieal features,
                                             rs.
 g) Keystones ever door ways
                          -     or- windows.
                                        rvr shutters.




The followine standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the C- PQ Zone
including but not limited to primaLy and accessol                                    structures, accent features   and architectural
art.

       1.   Four- sided architecture.                      All sides of a building that are open to public view includin
            views from adjacent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings)
            shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.

 2) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height, except on projects of at least 20
acres adjacent to the Bangerter Highway or Mountain View Corridor, where building height shall
not exceed 80 feet. Where a building is within 100 feet of a residential zone, maximum building
height shall not exceed 35 feet. Height is measured from the Rrimary finished floor to the highest
 Dint of any roof peak. parMet watt or to the top of any architectural feature. Roafto
mechanical equipment, screens, safety railin s and other mechanical elements are not included
in building height.
 3) Bulk. Commereial buildingg shall be eneeufflged to be designed With aFehiteewfal wall

Sur face
     - or additienal aMiiteetuFal elements that bFeak Lip the lafge SUFfaee into snialleF--ree4eii-i.-
Commercial buildings shall be designed with horizontal architectural wail variations at least
every 30 to 50 feet in linear width depending on the size of the project. A horizontal
architectural wall variation ma                       include the following:
a.          Primary Material Change.
b.          A horizontal shift of at Ieast 18- inches peMendicular to the primaa 121ane.
 4) Rooffine.11
view at the elosest edge of aE aeent                                                     of way by parapet walls or-etheF arelikeetur-al
eleinents                                  lTbythe p111"    aai ..     vaaaau..+     avaa.




                                                                                                                                 uitiscirii




 4                   Roofline.     Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
following:
a.                   Changes in vertical height by at least 18- inches change in elevation.
b.                   Solid RarUet walls. subject to the Horizontal variation re uirernents listed above.
C.                   Variation in the rooflines by use of dormer windows overhangs. arches ste                                ed roofs

gables or other similar devices.
 5) Exterior- Suffaees.
 a) Pfeteeted Lower Wall. The lowerwall shall be at least one third the height of thefkst-.
                                                                                                    r



                                                                        nthis i..
                                                                               qula vaarv<<a.bfiek, stie ,


and tFeated weed. However-,not tnot-e than 40 penent of the building' s exter-ief wallsuFfaee
fnay be tones to

provide a eampus atmospher -. 5 Exterior
 Building            Materials and Colors.a Exterior
              Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the exterior of the building
                     and shall be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than two 2 types of materials per
                     building.i.
                               For
                                     proertis/   projects located from 1830 West to 1300 West, and between 12500
                                                 South and 12930 South brick,with color and type approved by
                                                 the City, shall be one of the required building materials. bl Color

              of exterior building materials (excluding accent colors) shall be limited to no more than five
                     5 and no less than two 2 major colors per development. c Bright
              colors such as neon or fluorescent colors bright orari a or yel ow, and primaLy colors, are
                     onlypermitted_ as accent colors as determined by the Land Use Authority_.d No
              more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color. e The
              roof   shall not be considered a material or color. Glass is
                     considered an Exterior Buildin Material but not a color. Glas used in windows may be
                     excluded from the limitation on number of exterior matei als as found in Item 5.a. above at
                     the discretion of the Citv. Architectural metal
                     such as corrugated metal or similar material, and r"usted' or otherwise distressed
                     look metal may be used on exterior building elevations. as an accent not to
                     exceed more than 20%
                                        of anv                       building side. G)
                                                                                     Prohibited



  Materials          a Patterned
                      stucco   as a masonry substi ute. b Wood
                      as       a primaa exterior finish material. 12
                  c)       Vinyl or aluminum siding_
                  d        Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
                  e        Precast cement walls for develo meats are only acceptable if covered by brick
                  brick veneer, approved stone/rock or an approved masonry component. Such types of
                  walls are also acce table where allowed/required masonry pattems are integrated into the
                  exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed by the City on side or rear
                  walls in the Commercial Regional, Planned Commercial Center. and Light Industrial
                  Zones.

                           Wood. iiieludiniz wood suing=les are not allowed as a roofing material.
9     Cohesion / Consistent
                  a New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and
                       consistency with the adjacent and surrowiding commercial buildings as detennined
                       by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a
                       review of the aRprovals and requirements of the original commercial building or
                       original commercial center.
                              1   In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously
                                  approved, a new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and
                                  identify at least two ( 2) major elements of consistency with the surrounding
                                  roved center. including primary materials and architectural features.
                                  a


                             2 New or renovated standalone buildings not 12revioLisly part of an approved
                               center or development) shall include and identify at least one 1 major
                               element of copsistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildin s

10)                Mechanical     Equipment.
      a) All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility o
                                                                                          - f such
                  e ui ment. Screening: methods and materials inust be approved by the land use authority
                  as Bart of Site Plan approval.
      b Wing walls. screens, or other enclosures shall be into rated into the building and
        landscUipg of the site. whether located on theground or roof. c
      Ro ftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical e ui gnent unless corn letel screened
                  from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6-
                                                                    ft high at the property lines.or
                  as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority. d
      Scre ni g materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the primary building.
                  a-
      All attached exterior utility boxes and a ui meizt. roof drains. conduit and RiRing. maintenance
                  stairs and ladders. and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise treated
                  to be consistent with underlying/ adjacent material colors. c)
       Regional



 Commercial 18.
85. 060 Architectural standards. I
                                                                                           13
                                                                               M.




                                                            MyrWAMNOR




The following standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the C- R Zone
including but not limited to primary and accessoLy stmetures, accent features, and architectural
art.

       1.    Four- sided architecture. All sides of a building that are open to public view includin
             views from ad' acent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings
             shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.



 2) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 80 feet in height.-but shall not exceed 35 feet in
heieht where anv portion of the building is within 100 feet of a residential zone. Height is
measured from the 12rimaa finished floor to the highest point of any roof peak. 12arapet wall or to
the top of any architectural feature. Rooftop mechanical equipment, screens, safety railings, and
other mechanical elements are not included in building height.


 3) Bulk. Commer-eial buildings shall be eneouraged         to be                              Nvall

                at least eveFy 70 feet in lineaF width. Vatiations eould imply awundulatiol- ' n wall
stir-f4ee of additional arehiteetur-al elements tha4 bFeak tip the large surf kee inte smaller emetien
Commercial buildiggs shall be designed with horizontal architectural wall variations at least
eve         30 to 50 feet in linear width depending on the size of the proiect. A horizontal
architectural wall variation may include the following:
a.           Primary Material Change.
b.           A horizontal shift of at least 18- inches peEpendicular to the pfimary plane.
 4) Roofline.


                                                                                                       solid




                                                       14
Commercial buildin s shall be designed with vertical height variations of the roofline at least
eveLy 50 feet. A vertical hei ht variation of the roofline may include the following:
a.        Changes in vertical height by at least 18- inches change in elevation.
b.        Solid parqpet walls subject to the Horizontal variation requirements listed above.
C.        Variation in the rooflines by use of donner windows overhangs. arches ste       ed roofs

gables or other similar devices.
 5)       Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
      a Exterior Building Materials shatl be considered an • materials that make Lip the exterior of
          the building and shall be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than two 2 types of
          materials per building.
      b Color of exterior building materials( excluding accent colors shall be limited to no more
          than five    5 and no less than two 2 major colors per development,
      c Bright colors such as tieon or fluorescent colors bright orange or yellow, and primm
         colors are only permitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use Authority.
      d) No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
      e   The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
          Glass is considered an Exterior Building Material. but not a color. Glass used in windows
          may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found in Item 5. a.
          above at the discretion of the City.
          Architectural metal such as coiru gated metal or similar material and " rusted' or
          otherwise distressed look metal may be used on exterior building elevations. as an accent
          not to exceed more than 20% of any building side.

 6)       Prohibited    Materials
          a)       Pattemed stucco as a masonry substitute.
          b        Wood as a primM exterior finish material.
          c)       Vinyl or aluminum siding.
          d        Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
          e        Precast cement walls for develo meets are onlX acce table if covered by brick
          brick veneer, approved stone/ rock or an a  roved masona component. Such types of
          walls are also acce table where allowed/ required masona pattems are integrated into the
          exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed by the City on side or rear
          walls in the Commercial Re ional Planned Commercial Center. and Ligbt Industrial
          Zones.
                   Wood including wood shingles, are not allowed as a roofing material.
 7    Cohesion /      Consistent
          b New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and
               consistency with the adjacent and surrounding commercial building as determined
               by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a
                                                    15
            review of the apl2rovals and requirements of the original commercial building or
            original commercial center.
                    1   In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously
                        approved, a new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and
                        identify at least two 2 major elements of consistency with the surroundin
                        approved centef-, including -primary materials and architectural features.
                        New or renovated standalone buildings not previously part of an a                    raved

                        center or development) shall include and identify at least one 1 major
                        element of consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buiidin s

     Mechanical    Equipment.
    a All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
        ui ment. Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land use authorit
       as part of Site Plan approval.
    b Wing walls, Screens or other enclosures shall be integrated into the building and
       landscaing of the site, whether located on the gfound or roof.
    c Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical equipment unless completely
                                                                                           propertylines. or
              screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6- ft high at the propei-ty
              as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority. d
    Scre ni g materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the aKy                       building.

       All

attached exterior utilitv boxes and equipment, roof drains. conduit and piping, maintenance stairs
and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise treated to be consistent
with underl in adjacent        material building(
Lower- Wall. The lower- one thiFd of the wall may e-
                                                   ensist deear-
                                            hewe
ative eener- ete.S           may Only be .."            the wall is a Fainrflurn of 20 feet from an parking
ar-
  em-Ar.
      - 4-4-me featur-                                     es that extend to the Poor- may may




                                                                                consist of glass, br-
                                                                               a)
ick,stueee, andstene. Fiber- eement air.ciiag, metal aeeents, and woodand simulated weou e)
may be utilized whefe appr-oprWe to the use and the stif ounding development.
Color- Palette. Exter- ier wall sur-faces sliall not include fluemseent co produets
 Planned Commercial Center
18. 100. 060 Architectural standards.
 1) AFeNteetural Design. For pFojeets within ffie planned -                                 0fiter Zone that inelude-
            than
            l                                  site, n master site _plan
                                                                     la is re     rVu'
        fella ,                                                                 u
                                      atiraged features for- all eommercial buildings.
be able to lUsL411 nftheSe gaatffeS. Sfflallff seale developments are eneotif:aged to use as Many of
these features as pos" Nei.




 7




Commission.

The following standards are qpplicable to all new or amended development in the PCC Zone
including but not limited to primary and accessory structures. accent features, and architectural
art.
       1.     Four- sided architecture.           All sides of a building that are open to public view includin =
              views from ad' acent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellin s
              shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.



 2) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 80 feet in height, but shall not exceed 35 feet in
height where any_portion of the building is within 100 feet of a residential zone. Height is
measured from the primary finished floor to the hi ,,hest point of any roof ocak. varapet wall or to
the top of any architectural feature. Rooftop mechanical equipment. screens, safety railings. and
other mechanical elements are not included in building height.
 3) Bulk. Commer-eial buildings shall be eneoufaged to be designed witli aFehiteetE!ffil wall
variations a4 1 east every 7 0 fee4 i n 1 i near- w idth - Variati ons eeuld imply an uadulatiO 11 iR Wal 1

Commercial buildings shall be designed with horizontal architectural wall variations at least
eve         30 to 50 feet in linear width de endi ng on the size of the proiect. A horizontal
architectural wall variation may include the following:
a.      Primaa Material Change.
b.            A horizontal shift of at least 18- inches pen2endicular to the priinaoLplane.
 4) Roofline.


However,
                      a nl.: .        lo
                                           re not p _   i++ . f
                                 z.




This lower per-tion of the wall may                  ME,                   f   stone, OF deeOFW.
fliat extend to the floor may be exelkided ffem +1".

bfielE, Stueee, and        ucvu...




                                                                  17
                                                                              5eent-- ^   vr ,



5)               Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
             a) Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the exterior of
                 the building and shall be limited to no more than five ( 5) and no less than two ( 2)ttypes of
                 materials per building.
             b Color of exterior building materials excluding accent colors shall be limited to no more
                 than five 5 and no less than two 2 major colors per development.
             c Bright colors, such as neon or fluorescent colors. bright orange or yellow, and l2rimmy
               colors, are only permitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use Authority.
             d No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
             e   The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
             ff) Glass is considered an Exterior Building Material, but not a color. Glass used in windows
                 may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found in Item 5. a.
                 above at the discretion of the City.
              g ) Architectural metal such as corrugated metal or similar material, and ` rusted" or
                 otherwise distressed look metal may be used on exterior building elevations as an accent
                 not to exceed more than 20%      of any building side.

6                Prohibited Materials
                 a        Patterned stucco as a masonry substitute.
                 b        Wood as a primaKy exterior finish material.
                  c)      Vinvl or aluminum siding_
                  d       Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
                  e      Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick.
                 brick veneer, approved stone/ rock or an approved masonry component. Such types of
                 walls are also acceptable where allowed/ required masonryattems are integrated into the exterior
                 side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed by the City on side or rear walls
                 in the Commercial Regional. Planned    Commercial Center, and Li ht Industrial Zones.
                 Wood.
                          including wood shingles. are not allowed as a ro fing material. 7               )
Cohesion /   Consistency a
                 New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and consistency
                       with the adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings as determined by
                       the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a review
                       of the 4pnrovals and requirements of the original commercial building or original
                       commercial center. 1)

                             In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously_ approved,
                                a new or renovated commercial building 121an shall include and identify
                                at least two 2 major- elements of consistency with the surroundin a aproved
                                center.including rima materials        and architectural features. 2
                             New or renovated standalone buildin s not previously - of
                                                                                    part an approved center
                                or development) shall include and identify at least one 1 major element
                                of consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildin s 8)

Mechanical    Equipment. UP
     a All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
           equipment. Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land use authorit
           as part of Site Plan approval.
     b Wing walls screens, or other enclosures shall be intejuated into the buildingand
       jandscaing of the site, whether located on the gound or roof.
     c Rooftops of buildin s shalI be free of gLny mechanical equipment unless com letel
       screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6- ft high at the property tines
           or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority,
     d Screenin         materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the prime
           building.
     ar)   e        All attached exterior utility boxes and a ui mem, roof drains. conduit and PiRii1g.
           maintenance stairs and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise
           treated to be consistent with underl   in   adjacent material colors.



Manufacturing Zones
18. 95. 040 Architectural standards.
 1) Building Height. Buildiogs shall not exceed 50 feet in heigiit- FQr-d. 20 20 § 1 ( Exh. A).!
The following, standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the M- 1 and M- 2
Zones including but not limited to primary and accessory structures, accent features and
architectural art.
    1.     four- sided architecture.   All sides of    building that are open to Rublic view Oncludin s
           views from adjacent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings)
           shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.
    2.     Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 50 feet in height. but shall not exceed 35 feet
           in height where any portion of the building is within 100 feet of a residential zone.
           Height is measured from the primaa finished floor to the 1iig Best point of any roof peak.
           parapet wall or to the top of atiy architectural feature. Rooftop mechanical a ui ment
           screens, safety railings. and other mechanical elements are not included in buildin
           hem

    3.     Bulk. Commercial buildings shall be designed with liorizontal architectural wall
           variations at least every 30 to 50 feet in linear width, depending on the size of the proLct.
           A horizontal architectural variation may include the following:
               a.  Primm Material Change.
               b. A horizontal shift of at least 18- inches pej7pendicular to the Rrimary plane.


    4.     Roofline. Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
           roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
           following:
               a.   Changes in vertical height by at least 18- inches change in elevation.
               b.   Solid parapet walls subject to the Horizontal variation requirements listed above.
               c.   Variation in the rooflines by use of dormer windows overltan s. arches. stepped
                    roofs, aables or other similar devices.


                                                       19
    5.   Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
         a) Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the
              exterior of the building and shall be limited to no more than five 5 and no less than
              two 2 types of materials per building.
         b Color of exterior building materials( excluding accent colors shall be limited to no
              more than five 5 and no less than two 2 major colors per development.
         c) Bright colors. such as neon or fluorescent colors, bright orange or vellow. and
              primM colors, are only ennitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use
              Authoritv.

         d No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
         e    The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
              Glass is considered an Exterior Building Material but not a color. Glass used in
              windows may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as
              found in Item 5. a. above at the discretion of the Citv.
              Architectural metal such as corrugated metal or similar material, and " rusted' or
              otherwise distressed look metal ma be used on exterior building elevations as an
              accent not to exceed more than 20%      of any buildin     side.


G        Prohibited Materials
         a        Patterned stucco as a masong substitute.
         b        Wood as a primaKy exterior finish material.
         c)       Vinyl or aluminum siding.
         d)       Uncolored and/ or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
         e       Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick.
         brick veneer, a    roved stone/ rock or an approved masona component. Such types of
         walls are also acceptable where allowed/ required masoM patterns are integrated into the
         exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this mU be allowed by the CitX on side or rear
         walls in the Commercial Regional. Planned Commercial Center. and Light Industrial
         Zones.
                  Wood including wood shingles, are not allowed as a roofing material.
7    Cohesion / Consistent
         a New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of cohesion and
              consistency with the adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings as determined
              by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land. Use Authority may include a
              review of the a     royals and requirements of the original commercial building or
              original commercial     center.
                     I     In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously
                           approved, a new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and
                           identify at least two 2 maior elements of consistency with the surrounding
                           approved center, including primary materials and architectural features.
                     2     New or renovated standalone build in = not previously part of an approved
                           center or development) shall include and identify at least one ( 1) major
                           element of consistency with adjacent and surrounding, commercial buildings

                                                      pill
8)    Mechanical     Equipment.
      a All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of such
        equipment Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land use authorit
        as part of Site Plan approval.
      b Wing walls, screens or other enclosures shall be integrated into the building and
        landscaping of the site, whether located on the ground or roof.
      c Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical a ui meat unless coin letel
        screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from G- ft high at the property lines,
         or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
      d ScreeniLi    inaterials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the prima
         building.
      e All attached exterior utility boxes and equipment, roof drains conduit and ipiping,
        maintenance stairs and ladders and other similar elements shall be painted or otherwise
         treated to be consistent with underlying/ adjacent material colors.




 Site Plan Review and Standards
18. 215. 030 Site Plan Development     Standards




                                                        pq
                                                   MMILMLLUMUM




PATIMMMM


                w




MIN




                                                    21
 i i) f3..,.. hibited Material        fl....east .      ient walls f .•           ptabl
                                                                     devei opaments uav only ,
by bFiek, br-ick veneer-, approved st nelfeek or an approve,.' ... asenv-y eempoRent. Stieh types o
               are also aeeeptable
exteriev side of the wall
                                      wher-e the

                                                        are given to areas Wt TIOFFHA5' visible to publie ]
                                                                                                              o
GeneFete block Wildings may be allewed, but must be of quality design ( sueh as eemb- nations of
split                                                                                   l by .
T his
  -- -- type
         -- -- --ef building      shall be limited to the G         T        1   and M 1 zones only,
Pmhi b ited s, ding fnatefials, that are both aesthetieal ly and funeti onally easuitab! e because of 11se
and eNmate, inelude. thiek shake shingles, r-ustie fientier-wood siding, plastie and vinyl sidingi
  I   '   ^




The following standards are applicable to all new or amended non- residential buildings and sites
                                                                                                               These
located in any non- commercial zoning district as described in Riverton City Code.
standards apply to primary structures, accesso .                        structures   accent features. and architectural art.
For uses such as industrial. institutional church. religious. cultural. public, quasi -public. or
utilities.

          1.    Four- sided architecture.            All sides of a building that are open to public view( including
                views from ad' acent residential dwell in s or Rotentia[ location of residential dwell in
                shall receive consistent architectural design consideration.


          2.    Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height.                  Steeples or other
                decorative elements of a religious or cultural building may be allowed up to 50 feet as
                 approved in the conditional use permit. Height is measured from the primary finished
                 floor to the highest 12gint of any roof peak. parapet wall or to the top of any architectural
                 feature.    Rooftop mechanical equipment. screens safety railings. and other mechanical
                 elements are not included in building height.

          3.     Bulk. Commercial buildings shall be designed with horizontal architectural wall
                 variations at least every 30 to 50 feet in linear width. depending on the size of the project.
                 A horizontal architectural          variation may include the following:
                       a PrimaU Material Chan e.
                       b A horizontal shift of at least 18- inches peMendicular to the prii-naa plane.

          4.     Roofline.     Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
                 roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
                 following:
                       a Changes in vertical height by at least l 8- inches change in elevation.
                       b Solid parapet walls. subject to the Horizontal variation requirements listed above.
                       cl Variation in the rooflines by use of donrner windows. overhangs, arches stepped
                            roofsgables     or other similar devices.


          5.     Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
                      a Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the
                            exterior of the building and shall be limited to no more than five ( S) and no less
                            than two 2 types of materials per building.

                                                                    22
                  b Color of exterior building materials( excluding accent colors shall be limited to
                    no more than five S and no less than two 2 major colors per develo went.
                  c Briht colors, such as neon or fluorescent colors bri ht orange or yellow, and 12rimaLy
                                colors, are only ermitted as accent colors as deten ined by the Land Use Authority.
                                d

                  No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
                                e


                  The roof shall not be considered a material or color. Glass
                                is considered an Exterior Building Material, but not a color. Glass used in windows
                                may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as found
                                in Item 5.
                                         a. above at the discretion of the Citv. Architectural
                                metal such as cor ugated metal or similar material. and "rusted' or                       otherwise
                                distressed look metal may be used on exterior building elevations as                     an accent
                                not to exceed more than 20%
                                                          of any building side.Prohibited



             Materials a

                    Paterned stucco as a masonLy substitute. b
                    Wood as a primM exterior finish material. c]
                    Vinyl or aluminum siding. d
                    Uncol red    and/or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material. e
                    Cor ugated metal or similar material, and "rusted' or otherwise distressed look metal.
                                 except   where it is a roved      as an accent. Precast
                                 cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered b brick brick
                                 veneer, approved stone/ rock or an a roved     masonLy component. Such types
                                 of walls are also acceptable where allowed/ required masonKy pattems are integrated
                                 into the exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed b the
                                 Citv on side or rear walls in the Commercial Regional. Planned Commercial Center,
                                 and       Light Industrial Zones. Wood,
                                 including wood shingles. are not allowed as a ro fing material. 7.

Cohesion /   Consistency            a

                    New          or renovated buildings shall include elements of cohesion and consistent with
                                 the adjacent and surrounding commercial building as determined by the Land
                                 Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority mqy include a review of
                                 the al2provals and requirements of the on final commercial building or original commercial
                                 center. i.

                                     In   an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously approved.
                                          a          new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and identi
                                          fy at least two 2 major elements of consistency with the surrounding
                                          approved center,including rima materials               and     architectural
                                          features. 23
                  ii.   New or renovated standalone buildings not previously part of an
                        approved center or development) shall include and identify at least one 1
                        major element of consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial
                        buildings

8.   Mechanical     Equipment
          a All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility
             of such equipment Screening methods and materials must be approved by the
             land use authority as part of Site Plan approval.
          b Winiz walls. screens, or other enclosures shall be inte     aced into the building and
             landscaping of the site. whether located on the ground or roof.
          c Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical equipment unless
             completely screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6- ft high at
             the property lines or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
          d] Screening materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the
             primary building.

          e All attached exterior utility boxes and equipment. roof drains. conduit and
             piping, maintenance stairs and ladders and other similar elements shall be
                                                                              adjacent material
             painted or otherwise treated to be consistent with underl yin
             colors.




                                                 24
                                     CERTIFICATE    OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby Certify

that the foregoing Ordinance No. 25- 12 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 20a` day
of May 2025 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:


       1.        City Hall

       2.        Public Notice Website




       Dated this 20' day of May 2025-


            00
                  wVERZ-o,

                                            Jami    Larsen, Recorder
                               1



                  7947
                 OP U' CAX




                                                   25
