               Nephi City Planning Commission Meeting
                            June 10, 2020
Chairman Greenhalgh opened the meeting at 7:10 p.m.

Opening prayer offered by Ann Peterson.

Commission reviewed minutes from regular meeting held May 13, 2020. Minutes were accepted
on a motion by Brent Arns and a second by Ann Peterson. Motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Proposed amendments to zero lot line requirements and political sign requirements were discussed
by the Commission. Public hearing was held earlier in the evening with no public comment
received. Ann Peterson motioned recommendation to City Council the approval of proposed
amendments. Motion was seconded by Brent Arns. Motion passed with a unanimous vote.

Revised Cedar Ridge PUD Application was reviewed by Commission. Items discussed include
drainage options, open space concerns and how to define it, development of clubhouses, pools, and
parks within a subdivision. Karl Brough would like to add a requirement of trees to be planted
along with a time limit for completion of front landscaping. Possibly before occupancy is permitted.
Brent Arns offered an option might me to allow a bond for one growing season.

Gardner Village was discussed by Commission. Development includes both twin homes and town
homes, all with no basements. Fire hydrant locations, privacy fences, utilities, small turn-around,
and lack of drainage pond were reviewed.

Commission decided a July meeting will be held on the regularly scheduled week.

Proposed site plan requirement revisions were discussed by Commission. These new requirements
involve anything other than single family site plans. Chairman Greenhalgh created a Google Doc to
allow communication with all Commission members. Karl Brough expressed his concern for lack of
trees within the city.

Noting no additional items of business, Chairman Greenhalgh adjourned the meeting at 7:50pm.



Attendance:

Glenn Greenhalgh, Chairman
Karl Brough, Planning Commission Member
Brent Arns, Planning Commission Member
Ann Peterson, Alt. Planning Commission Member
