               Nephi City Planning Commission Agenda
                             April 8, 2026
                      7:00 p.m. Regular Meeting
7:00 - Regular Meeting:

    1.​ Welcome to the Planning Commission Meeting - Introduction of Commissioners
           a.​ Prayer (presenter to be announced)
           b.​ Pledge (presenter to be announced)

    2.​ Public Hearing - to accept public comment on changes to Subsection 10.7A.3 CU1 Zone Lot Size
        (Area), and Density Regulations : Rick Carlton has requested that Nephi City consider an update to
        the CU1 zoning code that would allow:
            a.​ For multi-unit buildings built vertically (stacked unit on top of unit): Require 5,000 square feet of
                 minimum lot size per dwelling unit on the bottom level, and no less than 2,500 square feet per unit
                 on the second or third level (approximately 50% required of the bottom level) - known as a
                 'vertical discount'. The density per acre would vary depending on the building constructed, but
                 would potentially equate to approximately 12 units per acre.
            b.​ The current requirement per unit is 7,260 square feet per unit no matter the level, which equates to
                 6 units per acre.
                     i.​   Staff presentation
                    ii.​   Open, hold and continue or close the public hearing
                   iii.​   Commission discussion
                   iv.​    Motion

    3.​ Public Hearing - to accept public comment on changes to Subsection 10.7A.3 & 10.7B.3 CU1 & CU2
        Zone Lot Size (Area), and Density Regulations: Nephi City will consider an update to the CU1 &
        CU2 zoning code that would allow:
           a.​ For multi-unit buildings built vertically (stacked unit on top of unit): to require 7,250 square feet
               of minimum lot size per dwelling unit on the bottom level, and no less than 3,625 square feet per
               unit on the second or third level (approximately 50% required of what normally required for the
               bottom level) - known as a 'vertical discount'. The density per acre would vary depending on the
               building constructed, but would equate to approximately 8-9 units per acre
           b.​ The current requirement per unit is 7,260 square feet per unit no matter the level, which equates to
               6 units per acre.
                   i.​   Staff presentation
                  ii.​   Open, hold and continue or close the public hearing
                 iii.​   Commission discussion
                 iv.​    Motion
4.​ Public Hearing - to accept public comment on changes to Chapter 3.7 Residential Facilities (for
    Elderly and Disabled) Regulations: Nephi City will consider an update to Chapter 3.7 Residential
    Facilities (for Elder and Disabled) that would require that:
        a.​ No Residential Facilities for elderly or disabled persons shall be established or maintained within
             one-thousand, fifty-six (1,056) feet of another residential facility for elderly persons or a
             residential facility for persons with a disability. The distance shall be measured in a straight line
             between the closest property lines of the lots or parcels.
        b.​ This new code reduces the amount of required distance between facilities from 3,960 feet to 1,056
             feet.
        c.​ Also included in the proposed changes are minimum room size requirements for these types of
             facilities, such as minimum bedroom sizes, common room sizes, etc.
                  i.​   Staff presentation
                 ii.​   Open, hold and continue or close the public hearing
                iii.​   Commission discussion
                iv.​    Motion



5.​ Discussion of update to Section 11.6.12(5)(h)(1) Site Plan Review to establish maximum noise levels in
    industrial and commercial zones.
        a.​ Staff presentation

6.​ Approval of Minutes
        a.​ Motion: Approve 2/11/26 minutes

7.​ Adjourn
       a.​ Motion
