                                                                                                                                     eagIO
                                                                                                                                    all.+
                                                                                                                                        n

                                                                                                                                             N(e1.o Apo
                                                                                                                            11- £   ZO .
                                                                                                                                              g130
         T•
                 CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
                 2023 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
                 Report of Contributions&       Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members

Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last Name                                              First Name                                     Middle Name

                    Cochran                                            Curtis                                       Paul

Address                                                City                                           Zip Code
         5279 S Morning Sky Circle                                  Taylorsville                                    84123


Type of Campaign ( check one)

                                f   Mayor                                        1   District Council Member


REPORT PERIOD( Check Appropriate Box Below)
All days are calendar days

                 PRIMARY ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates. Due by 5: 00 PM on August 29, 2023,
                 which is seven ( 7) days before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made through 5 days prior to the date this
                 Disclosure Report is due, if any, that have not been previously disclosed.

              0 POST PRIMARY: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5: 00 PM on
                 October 5, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.

                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                 previously reported.


              E 28- DAY REPORT: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are
                otherwise proceeding to the general election. Due by 5: 00 PM on October 24, 2023, which is twenty-
                 eight( 28) days before the date of the general election.

                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made through twenty-eight ( 28) days prior to the
                 general election, excluding those previously reported.

                 GEN ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by
                 5: 00 PM on November 14, 2023, which is no later than seven ( 7) days before the date of the general
                 election.

                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                 previously reported.


                 FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by 5: 00 p. m. on
                 December 21, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the general election.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign excluding those
                 previously reported.




                                                                        Page 1
1. Balance carried forward from last report                                                          800. 00

    Zero if first report, or balance at end of previous report)
2. Total contributions of$ 50 or less per donor during this reporting period
    Automatic entry from Attachment A, Line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $ 50 per donor during this reporting period

    Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report.
    Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period.                             60. 72

    Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period                                                          739. 28

    Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)




By my signature, I certify: ( 1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been
reported; (2) there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this
disclosure; ( 3) the disclosure represents my good faith effort to comply with Taylorsville City

Ordinances and Utah State Law; (4) I understand that pursuant to state law, failing to timely file a full
and complete Campaign Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name from the
ballot or a bar on any votes cast for me to not be counted, and ( 5) the information contained in this
disclosure is, to the best of my knowledge, true, accurate and complete.

Candidate Signature      l    t-   ?                                                 10/ 25/ 2023 Date




                                                    Page 2
PROVISIONS OF TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED


TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 030
 A. No person shall make contributions during any election cycle, as set forth in this chapter, to any
 candidate or his personal campaign committee, or any political committee with respect to any election
 for city office, that, in the aggregate, exceeds the following amounts: Mayor- $ 7, 500
 Councilmember - $ 1, 500


 B. The acceptance of anonymous contributions is prohibited. Any anonymous contribution received
 by a candidate or a personal campaign committee or political committee shall be transmitted to the
 city treasurer for deposit in the general fund of the city. Each contributor shall disclose to the personal
 campaign committee or political committee the name and address of such contributor.




TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 040

 A. All candidates for municipal office shall comply with campaign finance disclosure reqwuirements
 as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated 10- 3- 208 or its successors.

 B. In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection A of this section, each elected official and/ or
 candidate for municipal office shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement containing
 the information required in this section on March 1 of each year. ( Ord. 16- 20, 12- 14- 2016)




UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10- 3- 208( 3)
Each candidate: ( a) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial
institution; and ( b) may not deposit or mingle any campaign contributions received into a personal or
business account.

Name of Candidate      Curtis Paul Cochran
Date of Report         10/ 25/ 2023




                                                    Page 3
ATTACHMENT A- CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
 A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
 B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid loan, advance, or deposit
 of money or anything of value to the candidate;
 C.    any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
 D.    compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the candidate;
 E.    a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate' s own campaign; and
 F.    an in- kind contribution


Contribution does not include:


 A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual' s time on behalf of the candidate if the services are provided without
 compensation by the candidate or another person;
 B.    money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
 C.    goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate. For
 purposes of this paragraph," coordinated with" means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' s prior knowledge, if the candidate does not
 object; by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a candidate.

1. Total of all contributions of$ 50 or less received from any individuals since the
last report

2. Total of all contributions of more than $ 50, including in- kind contributions




      List the date received, name of the contributor, and amount received on Attachment A- 1).


                                                                      ATTACHMENT A-1
       Date                              Contributor                                                       City, State& Zip Code                        Amount
  Received




                                                                                                                                            TOTAL $
                                                                  Attach additional sheets if necessary)



Name of Candidate
                                     Curt Cochran


Date of Report                       10/ 25/ 2023




                                                                                Page 4
ATTACHMENT B-             EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:

 Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
Expenditure does not include:

 A.   Providing non- professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to- door or telephonic canvassing, when
      Date         Person/ Organization to Whom                   City, State& Zip Code                     Purpose of Distribution                Amount
  Received            Disbursement Was Made

                 City of Taylorsville                     Taylorsville UT                           filing fee                                           50. 00

      9/ 9/ 2023 Lowes                                    Murray UT 84123                           zip ties                                             10. 72




                                                                            Page 5
                                                                                                                            TOTAL   60. 72
                                                          Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Mail   or   deliver this report to:                  Email this report to:                         For more information, contact:

Taylorsville City Recorder                           ibrooks@taylorsvilleut. gov                   801- 955- 2006

2600 W Taylorsville Blvd
Taylorsville, UT 84129



Name of Candidate                     Curt Cochran

Date of Report                        10/ 25/ 2023




                                                                        Page 6
