                                                                                                                                              lecejfrea
                  CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                               6+
 1; .             2023 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
                  Report of Contributions& Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
                                                                                                                                                    023
                                                                                                                                     Of pa
                                                                                                                                    r ''/"

Instructions:   Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox( s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.                               S/rlt'/   e

CANDIDATE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                 Yoe
Last Name                                               First Name                                     Middle Name


BARBIERI                                                ANNA                                           RAKELL                                    f 1
Address                                                 City                                           Zip Code                              19l J
6351 SO CANNONWOOD DR                                   Taylorsville                                   84123

Office Sought:
                                    Mayor
                                                                        X             1.   District Council Member



REPORT PERIOD( Check Appropriate Box Below)
                                                                                                       All days are calendar days

           O      PRIMARY ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates. Due by 5: 00 PM on August 29, 2023,
                  which is seven( 7) days before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
                  To include all contributions received and expenditures made through 5 days prior to the date this Disclosure

                  Report is due, if any, that have not been previously disclosed.

                  POST PRIMARY: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5: 00 PM on
                  October 5, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.

                  To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                  previously reported.


                  28- DAY REPORT: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are
                  otherwise proceeding to the general election. Due by 5: 00 PM on October 24, 2023, which is twenty-
                  eight( 28) days before the date of the general election.

                  To include all contributions received and expenditures made through twenty-eight( 28) days prior to the
                  general election, excluding those previously reported.

        VV GEN ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by
                  5: 00 PM on November 14, 2023, which is no later than seven( 7) days before the date of the general
                  election.

                  To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                  previously reported.

           CI     FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by 5: 00 p. m. on
                  December 21, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the general election.
                  To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign excluding those
                  previously reported.




                                                                            Page 1
1.   Balance carried forward from last report                                                              Op
         Zero if first report, or balance at end of previous report)
2. Total contributions of$ 50 or less per donor during this reporting period
         Automatic entry from Attachment A, Line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $ 50 per donor during this reporting period
         Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report.
         Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period.
         Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6.   Ending Balance for this reporting period                                                             0 -D
         Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)



PROVISIONS OF TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED

TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 030
     A. No person shall make contributions during any election cycle, as set forth in this chapter, to any
     candidate, his/ her personal campaign committee, or any political committee with respect to any
     election for city office, that, in the aggregate, exceeds the following amounts:              Mayor-
      7, 500    Councilmember-$      1, 500


     B. The acceptance of anonymous contributions is prohibited. Any anonymous contribution received
     by a candidate or a personal campaign committee or political committee shall be transmitted to the
     city treasurer for deposit in the general fund of the city. Each contributor shall disclose to the
     personal campaign committee or political committee the name and address of such contributor.


     C. The limitation imposed above shall not apply to contributions by a candidate of the candidate's
     own resources to the candidate's own campaign. ( Ord. 13- 19, 8- 7- 2013)




TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 040

     A. All candidates for municipal office shall comply with campaign finance disclosure reqwuirements
     as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated 10- 3- 208 or its successors.

     B. In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection A of this section, each elected official
     and/ or candidate for municipal office shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement
     containing the information required in this section on March 1 of each year. ( Ord. 16- 20, 12- 14-
     2016)


UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10- 3- 208( 3)
Each candidate: ( a) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial
institution; and ( b) may not deposit or mingle any campaign contributions received into a personal or
business account.




                                                       Page 2
ATTACHMENT A• CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
  A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
  B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid loan, advance, or deposit
  of money or anything of value to the candidate;
  C. any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
  D. compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the candidate;
  E. a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate' s own campaign; and
  F.    an in- kind contribution



Contribution does not include:


  A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual' s time on behalf of the candidate if the services are provided without
  compensation by the candidate or another person;
  B. money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
  C. goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate. For
  purposes of this paragraph," coordinated with" means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' s prior knowledge, if the candidate does not
  object; by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a candidate.

       List the date received, name of the contributor, and amount received on Attachment A- 1).



                                                                      ATTACHMENT A- 1
       Date                             Contributor                                                  City, State& Zip Code                              Amount
  Received




                                                                                                                                          TOTAL $         Q (/
                                                                 Attach additional sheets if necessary)




                                                                               Page 3
ATTACHMENT B- EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS


Expenditure means:

  My of the following when done for Political Purposes:
  A. My disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
  B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a Candidate or Reporting
  Entity to a Person;
  C. M express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates him/ it to make a
  purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value to a Person;
  D.   Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
  E.   A transfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
  F.   A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market value.
  G.    The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate' s own campaign.


Expenditure does not include:

  A.    Providing non- professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to- door or telephonic canvassing, when
  compensation is in fact not provided; or
  B.    Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.

  Payment           Person/ Organization to Whom                    City, State& Zip Code                     Purpose of Distribution               Amount
       Date            Disbursement Was Made




                                                                                                                                          TOTAL              0. 00
                                                                   Attach additional sheets if necessary)


By my signature, I certify: ( 1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been
reported; ( 2) there are /        oro ligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this
Name of Candidate:            '/           VgVg          Jiy7C.f/
                                                                 io    L



Date of Report:
Mail or deliver this report to:              J               Email this report to:                             For more information, contact:
Taylorsville City Recorder                                   jbrooks@taylorsvilleut. gov                       801- 955-2006
2600 W Taylorsville Blvd

Taylorsville, UT 84129




                                                                                 Page 4
