                                                                                                                                  iie
                                                                                                                                             gyp

                CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
                                                                                                                                 l4?
                2023 MUNICIPAL ELECTION                                                                                             OZ3
                Report of Contributions&          Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members                                   Of j$
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s).
                                                                                                                                             @@
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                        t,
Last Name                                              First Name                            Middle Name


Cochran                                                Curt
Address                                                City                                  Zip Code

5279 S Morning Sky Circle                              Taylorsville                          84123


Office Sought:
                                r"   Mayor                                     r District Council Member



REPORT PERIOD( Check Appropriate Box Below)
                                                                                             All days are calendar days

           0 PRIMARY ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates. Due by 5: 00 PM on August 29, 2023, which
                is seven( 7) days before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
                To include all contributions received and expenditures made through 5 days prior to the date this Disclosure
                Report is due, if any, that have not been previously disclosed.

           E POST PRIMARY: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5: 00 PM on
                October 5, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.

                To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                previously reported.


                28- DAY REPORT: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are
                otherwise proceeding to the general election. Due by 5: 00 PM on October 24, 2023, which is twenty-eight
                 28) days before the date of the general election.

                To include all contributions received and expenditures made through twenty- eight( 28) days prior to the
                general election, excluding those previously reported.

                GEN ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by 5: 00
                PM on November 14, 2023, which is no later than seven( 7) days before the date of the general
                election.

                To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those
                previously reported.

                FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by 5: 00 p. m. on
                December 21, 2023, which is no later than thirty( 30) days after the date of the general election.
                To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign excluding those
                previously reported.




                                                                      Page 1
1. Balance carried forward from last report                                                            800.00
    Zero if first report, or balance at end of previous report)
2. Total contributions of$ 50 or less per donor during this reporting period
                                                                                                       n/ a

    Automatic entry from Attachment A, Linc 1)
3. Total contributions of more than$ 50 per donor during this reporting period
    Enter Total from Attachment A- 1)
4. Total contributions as of this report.                                                                     0. 00
    Enter Total From Attachment A- 1)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period.                               60. 72
    Enter Total from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period                                                            739.28
    On Line 6 enter total from Line 1 plus line 3, minus line 5)



PROVISIONS OF TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED

TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 030
 A. No person shall make contributions during any election cycle, as set forth in this chapter, to any
 candidate, his/ her personal campaign committee, or any political committee with respect to any election
 for city office, that, in the aggregate, exceeds the following amounts:                  Mayor-$ 7, 500
 Councilmember-$ 1, 500


 B. The acceptance of anonymous contributions is prohibited. Any anonymous contribution received by a
 candidate or a personal campaign committee or political committee shall be transmitted to the city
 treasurer for deposit in the general fund of the city. Each contributor shall disclose to the personal
 campaign committee or political committee the name and address of such contributor.


 C. The limitation imposed above shall not apply to contributions by a candidate of the candidate' s own
 resources to the candidate' s own campaign. ( Ord. 13- 19, 8- 7- 2013)




TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 040

 A. All candidates for municipal office shall comply with campaign finance disclosure reqwuirements as
 prescribed in Utah Code Annotated 10- 3- 208 or its successors.

 B. In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection A of this section, each elected official and/ or
 candidate for municipal office shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement containing
 the information required in this section on March 1 of each year. (Ord. 16- 20, 12- 14- 2016)




UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10- 3- 208( 3)
Each candidate: ( a) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial
institution; and ( b) may not deposit or mingle any campaign contributions received into a personal or
business account.




                                                     Page 2
ATTACHMENT A- CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
 A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
 B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid loan, advance, or deposit of
 money or anything of value to the candidate;
 C. any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
 D.    compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the candidate;
 E.    a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate's own campaign; and
 F.    an in- kind contribution


Contribution does ES include:

 A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual' s time on behalf of the candidate if the services are provided without
 compensation by the candidate or another person;
 B. money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
 C. goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate, For
 purposes of this paragraph," coordinated with" means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' s prior knowledge, if the candidate does not object;
 by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a candidate.

      List the date received, name of the contributor, and amount received on Attachment A-1).



                                                                       ATTACHMENT A-1
       Date                             Contributor                                                  City, State& Zip Code                                Amount

  Received




                                                                                                                                           TOTAL $
                                                                   Attach additional sheets if necessary)




                                                                                  Page 3
ATTACHMENT B-                EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS



Expenditure means:

  Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
  A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
  B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a Candidate or Reporting Entity
  to a Person;
  C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates him/ it to make a
  purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value to a Person;
  D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
  E. A transfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
  F.   A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market value.
  G.   The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate' s own campaign.

Expenditure does not include:

 A. Providing non- professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or telephonic canvassing, when
 compensation is in fact not provided; or
  B.   Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.

   Payment          Person/ Organization to Whom                    City, State& Zip Code                           Purpose of Distribution          Amount
       Date             Disbursement Was Made


                  City of Taylorsville                      Taylorsville UT                                  filing fee                                       50. 00


       9/ 9/ 2023 Lowe' s                                   Murray, UT                                       zip ties                                         10. 72




                                                                                                                                            TOTAL             60. 72
                                                                    Attach additional sheets if necessary)


By my signature, I certify: ( 1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been
reported; ( 2) there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this disclosure;
Name of Candidate:                  Curt Cochran


Date of Report:                     11/ 14/ 2023

Mail or deliver this report to:                             Email this report to:                                   For more Information, contact:
Taylorsville City Recorder                                  jbrooks( ttavlorsvilleut. aov                           801- 955- 2006

2600 W Taylorsville Blvd

Taylorsville, UT 84129




                                                                                   Page 4
