                                                                                                              l l s f 8cc, yl Recei^
                                                                                                                                       ed



                                                                                                                         OCTg520        2
     0a.,,       CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
                 2023 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
                 Report of Contributions& Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members

Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last     am                                            Fir   Name                                  Middle. Name
        lt     l11-
Ad   ress                                              CityZip Code
              j. 0-
05/                   44141010-                                                                                5
                                 ered4,),   tGVia



Type of Campaign ( check one)

                                   Mayor                                                   Council Member


REPORT PERIOD ( Check Appropriate Box Below)
All days are calendar days

                 PRIMARY ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates. Due by 5: 00 PM on August 29, 2023,
                 which is seven ( 7) days before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made through 5 days prior to the date this
                 Disclosure Report is due, if any, that have not been previously disclosed.

                 POST PRIMARY: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5: 00 PM on
                 October 5, 2023, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election, if
                 any.

                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding
                 those previously reported.


                 28- DAY REPORT: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who
             1are otherwise proceeding to the general election. Due by 5: 00 PM on October 24, 2023, which is
                 twenty-eight (28) days before the date of the general election.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made through twenty-eight (28) days prior to the
                 general election, excluding those previously reported.

                 GEN ELECTION REPORT: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due
                 by 5: 00 PM on November 14, 2023, which is no later than seven ( 7) days before the date of the
                 general election.

                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding
                 those previously reported.

                 FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the General Election. Due by 5: 00 p. m. on
                 December 21, 2023, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the general election.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign excluding thosE
                  previously reported.




                                                                     Page 1
1. Balance carried forward from last report
     Zero if first report, or balance at end of previous report)
2. Total contributions of $50 or less per donor during this reporting period

    Automatic entry from Attachment A, Line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $ 50 per donor during this reporting period

    Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report.
    Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period.                     c747.
    Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period
    Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)




By my signature, I certify: ( 1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been
reported; ( 2) there are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this

disclosure; ( 3) the disclosure represents my good faith effort to comply with Taylorsville City
Ordinances and Utah State Law; ( 4) I understand that pursuant to state law, failing to timely file a
full and complete Campaign Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name from
the ballot or a bar on any votes cast for me to not be counted, and ( 5) the information contained in
this disclosure is, to the best of my kno, ledge, true, accurate and complete.
                                                          1

                               i
                                                              3 P
                                                                :
Candidate Signatu                                                                  1/ 13/ 2023 Date




                                                 Page 2
PROVISIONS OF TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED


TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 030
 A. No person shall make contributions during any election cycle, as set forth in this chapter, to
 any candidate or his personal campaign committee, or any political committee with respect to any
 election for city office,    that, in the aggregate, exceeds the following amounts:   Mayor - $ 7, 500
 Councilmember - $ 1, 500


 B. The acceptance of anonymous contributions is prohibited. Any anonymous contribution
 received by a candidate or a personal campaign committee or political committee shall be
 transmitted to the city treasurer for deposit in the general fund of the city. Each contributor of a
 contribution shall disclose to the personal campaign committee or political committee the name
 and address of such contributor.




TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2. 36. 040

 A. All candidates for municipal office shall comply with campaign finance disclosure
 reqwuirements as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated 10- 3- 208 or its successors.

 B. In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection A of this section, each elected official
 and/ or candidate for municipal office shall file with the city recorder a campaign finance statement
 containing the information required in this section on March 1 of each year. ( Ord. 16- 20, 12- 14-
 2016)


UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10- 3- 208( 3)
Each candidate: ( a) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial

institution; and ( b) may not deposit or mingle any campaign contributions received into a personal
or business account.

Name of Candi• . =                %/,,/.,   i41411/   7, ,        lD   o c3
                                                                              p   a
Date of Report               1'    3/ 2023




                                                             Page 3
ATTACHMENT A- CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
 A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
 B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid loan, advance, or
 deposit of money or anything of value to the candidate;
  C. any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
  D. compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the candidate;
  E.    a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate's own campaign; and
  F.   an in- kind contribution



Contribution does not include:

 A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual's time on behalf of the candidate if the services are provided without
 compensation by the candidate or another person;
  B. money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
  C. goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate.
  For purposes of this paragraph," coordinated with" means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' s prior knowledge, if the candidate

 does not object; by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a candidate.


1. Total of all contributions of$ 50 or less received from any individuals since
2. Total of all contributions of more than $50, including in- kind contributions




       List the date received, name of the contributor, and amount received on Attachment A- 1).



                                                                    ATTACHMENT A-1
       Date                               Contributor                                              City, State& Zip Code                             Amount
   Received




                                                                             Page 4
                                                                                       TOTAL $
                                        fA : r h additional sheets if necessary)


Name of Candidate
Date of Report
                      jj„/
                    1 / 2023
                               commAirw-•
                                                               p     o13           3




                                                        Page 5
ATTACHMENT B- EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
 Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
 A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
  B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a Candidate or Reporting
  Entity to a Person;
 C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates him/ it to make a
 purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value to a Person;
  D.    Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
  E.    A transfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
  F.    A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market value.
 G.     The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate' s own campaign.




Expenditure does not include:

 A.     Providing non- professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to- door or telephonic canvassing,
 when compensation is in fact not provided; or
  B.    Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.


        Date          Person/ Organization to Whom                   City, State& Zip Code                     Purpose of Distribution              Amount
   Received              Disbursement Was Made
   s/    I/    3                                                          4?' Ael/
                                                                      k.."(                                                                         e
                           tti            P




                                                                                                                                                    O(),
                                                                                                                                           TOTAL        $   0. 00
                                                                 Attach additional sheets if necessary)




                                                                               Page 6
Mail or deliver this report to:                 Email this report to:         For more information, contact:
Taylorsville City Recorder                      jbrooks@taylorsvilleut. gov   801- 955- 2006
2600 W Taylorsville Blvd
Taylorsville, UT 84129



Name of Candidate
                                                h1
                                                11
                                        1.,.         9 4   //'    /
Date of Report                    1/   3/ 202                         r




                                                                 Page 7
