                            a<



                             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
                        7    2025 CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIALS
         r,    t
                   E-        Report of Contributions &           Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members

 Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox( s). The rest of the form will auto- populate.
 CANDIDATE INFORMATION
 Last Name                                                            First Name                                   Middle Name
 Harker                                                               Meredith
 Address
                                                                      City                                        Zip Code
 3475 W 5735 S                                                        Taylorsville                                 84129


 Elected Office ( Select From Drop Down Menu)
                                             Council District 4


 REPORT PERIOD ( Check Appropriate Box Below)
All days are calendar days


                    2 CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIALS: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due by
                            5: 00 PM no later than March 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
                            To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial disclosure
                            report was filed.


1. Balance carried forward from last report
        Zero if first report, or balance at end of previous report)

2. Total contributions of$ 50 or less per donor during this reporting period
        Automatic entry from Attachment       A, Line 1)

3. Total      contributions         of more than$ 50
                                                     per donor        during this reporting period
        Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report.
      Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period.
        Automatic entry from Attachment B)

6. Ending Balance for this reporting period
       Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)

                                                                                                                                                    0
A. CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
  A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
  B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid
  loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value to the candidate;
  C.
      any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
  D.
       compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the
  candidate;

  E.
       a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate' s own campaign; and
  F.   an in- kind contribution


Contribution       does not include:




                                                                             Page 1
 A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual' stime on behalf of the candidate if the services are
 provided without compensation by the candidate or another person;
 B. money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
 C. goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with
 the candidate.
 For purposes of this paragraph, “ coordinated with” means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' sprior knowledge, if
 the candidate does not object; by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a
 candidate.

1.Total ofall contributions of $50 orless received from any individuals since
the last report
2.Total ofall contributions ofmore than $50, including in-kind contributions




                                                   ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTIONS
    Date                               ContributorCity, State & Zip CodeAmount of
  Received                                                                 Contribution




                                                                                                                  TOTAL$                -
                                                     Attachadditionalsheetsifnecessary)


                                                                  Page2
B.EXPENDITURES OROBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
  Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
  A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by acampaign.
  B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a
  Candidate or Reporting Entity to aPerson;
  C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates
  him/it to make a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value
  to a Person;
  D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
  E. A transfer of funds by aReporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
  F. A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market
  value.
  G. The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate’ sown campaign.
Expenditure does not include:
 A. Providing non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or
 telephonic canvassing, when compensation is in fact not provided; or
 B. Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.


    Date            Person/Organization toWhom City, State & ZipCodePurpose of                                                  Amount
  Received            Disbursement Was MadeDistribution




                                                                                                                   TOTAL$               0.00
                                                      Attachadditionalsheetsifnecessary)




                                                                   Page3
Bymysignature,Icertify: (1)allcontributionsandexpendituresnotpreviouslyreportedhavebeenreported; (2)thereareno
billsorobligationsoutstandingandunpaidexceptassetforthinthisdisclosure; (3)thedisclosurerepresentsmygoodfaith
efforttocomplywithTaylorsvilleCityOrdinancesandUtahStateLaw; (4)Iunderstandthatpursuanttostatelaw,failingto
timelyfileafullandcompleteCampaignFinancialDisclosureReportwillresultintheremovalofmynamefromtheballotora
baronanyvotescastformetonotbecounted,and (5)theinformationcontainedinthisdisclosureis,tothebestofmy
knowledge,true,accurateandcomplete.

Candidate SignatureDate
Meredith Harker10/7/
                   2025

PROVISIONS OFTAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED

TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2.36.030
 A.Nopersonshallmakecontributionsduringanyelectioncycle,assetforthinthischapter,toanycandidateorhispersonal
 campaigncommittee,oranypoliticalcommitteewithrespecttoanyelectionforcityoffice,that,intheaggregate,exceeds
TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE 2.36.040
 A.AllcandidatesformunicipalofficeshallcomplywithcampaignfinancedisclosurereqwuirementsasprescribedinUtah
 CodeAnnotated10-
 B.                  3-208oritssuccessors.
    InadditiontotherequirementssetforthinsubsectionAofthissection,eachelectedofficialand/orcandidateformunicipal
 officeshallfilewiththecityrecorderacampaignfinancestatementcontainingtheinformationrequiredinthissectionon
UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10-3-208(3)
Eachcandidate: (a)shalldepositacontributioninaseparatecampaignaccountinafinancialinstitution;and (b)maynot
depositormingleanycampaigncontributionsreceivedintoapersonalorbusinessaccount.

Mail ordeliver this report to:   OREmail this report to:                            For more information, contact:
Taylorsville City Recorder                     jbrooks@taylorsvilleut. gov          801-955-2006
2600 W Taylorsville Blvd
Taylorsville, UT 84129




                                                     Page4
