                 FINANCIALDISCLOSUREREPORT
                 2026 CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIALS
                 Report ofContributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Onlyfillouttheareasinblueandthecheckbox(s).Therestoftheformwillauto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last NameFirst NameMiddle Name
HarkerMeredithAnn



Type ofOfficial (check one)
Mayor                     CityCouncil

REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box Below)
Alldaysarecalendardays

                 CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIALS Requiredbyallelectedofficialsforeachcalendaryearinoffice. Dueby
                 5:00PMnolaterthan March 1stofeach calendar yearinelected office.
                 To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial disclosure
                 report was filed.

1.Balance carried forward from lastreport                                                                                        786.12
      Zeroiffirstreport,orbalanceatendofpreviousreport)
2.Total contributions of $
                         50orlessperdonor during thisreporting period
      AutomaticentryfromAttachmentA,Line1)
3.Total contributions ofmore than $50perdonor during thisreporting period
      AutomaticentryfromAttachmentA,line2)
4.Total contributions asofthisreport.
      Automaticcalculation, line2plusline3)
5.Total expenditures orobligations incurred during thisreporting period.                                                         200.00)
      AutomaticentryfromAttachmentB)
6.Ending Balance forthisreporting period                                                                                         586.12
      Automaticcalculation, Line1plusline4,lessline5)

A.CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means any of the following when done for political purposes:
 A. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
 B. an express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, unpaid or partially unpaid
 loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value to the candidate;
 C. any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
 D. compensation paid by any person or reporting entity other than the candidate for personal services provided without charge to the
 candidate;
 E. a loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate' sown campaign; and
 F. an in-kind contribution

Contribution does not include:




                                                                 Page1
 A. services provided by an individual volunteering a portion or all of the individual' stime on behalf of the candidate if the services are
 provided without compensation by the candidate or another person;
 B. money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
 C. goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with
 the candidate.
 For purposes of this paragraph, “ coordinated with” means the goods or services were provided: with the candidate' sprior knowledge, if
 the candidate does not object; by agreement with the candidate; or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a
 candidate.

1.Total ofall contributions of $50 orless received from any individuals since
the last report
2.Total ofall contributions ofmore than $50, including in-kind contributions




                                                   ITEMIZED CONTRIBUTIONS
    Date                               ContributorCity, State & Zip CodeAmount of
  Received                                                                 Contribution




                                                                                                                  TOTAL$                -
                                                     Attachadditionalsheetsifnecessary)



                                                                  Page2
B.EXPENDITURES OROBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
  Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
  A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by acampaign.
  B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a
  Candidate or Reporting Entity to aPerson;
  C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates
  him/it to make a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value
  to a Person;
  D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
  E. A transfer of funds by aReporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
  F. A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market
  value.
  G. The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate’ sown campaign.
Expenditure does not include:
 A. Providing non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or
 telephonic canvassing, when compensation is in fact not provided; or
 B. Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.


    Date    Person/Organization toWhom City, State & ZipCodePurpose of                                                          Amount
  Received    Disbursement Was MadeDistribution
     1/6/ 2026NicoleMcDermottTaylorsville, UtahCampaign$                                                                              200.00




                                                                                                                   TOTAL$             200.00
                                                      Attachadditionalsheetsifnecessary)




                                                                   Page3
By my signature, I certify: ( 1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported; ( 2) there are no
bills or obligations outstanding   and unpaid except as set forth in this disclosure; ( 3) the disclosure   represents   my good faith
effort to comply with Taylorsville City Ordinances and Utah State Law; ( 4) I understand that pursuant to state law, failing to
timely file a full and complete Campaign     Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name from the ballot or a
bar on any votes cast for me to not be counted, and ( 5) the information contained in this disclosure is, to the best of my
knowledge, true, accurate and complete.


Candidate        i   nature    r                                                                                           Date//


                                                                                                                         Z

PROVISIONS OF TAYLORSVILLE CITY CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED


TAYLORSVILLE             CITY CODE    2. 36. 030

  A. No person shall make contributions during any election cycle, as set forth in this chapter, to any candidate or his personal

TAYLORSVILLE             CITY CODE 2. 36. 040

  A. All candidates for municipal office shall comply with campaign finance disclosure reqwuirements as prescribed in Utah
  B. In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection A of this section, each elected official and/ or candidate for municipal



UTAH      CODE ANNOTATED           10- 3- 208( 3)
Each candidate: ( a) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial institution; and ( b) may not
deposit or mingle any campaign contributions        received into a personal or business account.


Mail or deliver this report to:                            Email this report   to:                      For more information,       contact:
Taylorsville City Recorder                                                                              801- 955- 2006
                                                           ibrooksPtaylorsvilleut.   aov

2600 W Taylorsville     Blvd

Taylorsville,   UT 84129




                                                                 Page 4
