Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: May 19, 2020
Re: City Initiated Use Tables Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment. These text amendments have been initiated by the City and are being proposed to reflect the intent and effect of the Land Use Development Amendments approved by the Utah State Legislature, and ratified by the Governor, in the 2019 General Session (H.B. 315 Fourth Substitute). The proposed text amendments will affect Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Chapters 9-9, 9-10, 9-11, 9-12, 9-13, and 9-14. The changes would apply city wide, excepting Commercial Special Districts, those properties with Development Agreements and Master Planned Communities.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their April 23, 2020 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council on a 5-0 vote.
A minor change was made to the proposed language since the Planning Commission meeting to fix a reference error for Table 9-13-1. There were no substantive changes made.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with other sections or parts of this title or the general plan.
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.  The proposed text amendments implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendments will create a conflict with other sections or parts of this title or the general plan.
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6.  The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1438 5/14/2020 Cover Memo Use Tables Staff Report 5/15/2020 Cover Memo