NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a Business Meeting on Tuesday, May 19, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As restrictions are in place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make sure everyone interested in participating in City Council meetings can do so in a manner that they feel most comfortable.
Listen through our website - https:www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email your comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 p.m. on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 12 noon, May 19, 2020.
a 6:00 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Land Use Training - Mike Barker a 2. Introduction of Seasonal Fuels Crew - Chief Clint Smith a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Consent Items a. Approval of the April 21, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes. b. Approval of Resolution #20-23, reappointing Amy Demik to the Draper Historic Preservation Commission. 3. Public Hearing: Local Consent for an Off-Premises Beer Retailer Alcohol License for 7-Eleven Store #38765H (Administrative Action) Staff report by Christina Oliver. a 4. Public Hearing: Resolution #20-27 (Legislative Action) A Resolution of the Draper City Council authorizing the filing of eminent domain actions to acquire real property for the purpose of widening and improving Lone Peak Parkway. Staff Report by Scott Cooley. a 5. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1438, City Initiated Use Tables Text Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by the City of Draper for approval of a  Text Amendment for the purpose of amending the use tables in Draper City Municipal Code Title 9. The amendments will update the permitted, not permitted and conditional uses within the use tables for all agricultural, residential, commercial, public facilities, manufacturing, and transit station district zones with the intent of reducing the number of listed conditional uses within the city .  The changes would apply city wide, excepting Commercial Special Districts, those properties with Development Agreements that specifically address these standards, and Master Planned Communities . Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1437, City Initiated 2020 Text Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Draper City for approval of a Text Amendment to various sections of Draper City Municipal Code Titles 9 and 17  in order to update code, make clarifications, and to propose common sense standards. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.  a 7. Action Item: Resolution #20-25 (Legislative Action) Adopting the Tentative Budget for Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2021 and setting the public hearing for June 2, 2020, to take public comment on the Tentative Budget.  Staff report by Bob Wylie. a 8. Action Item: Ordinance #1421, amending Title 14-5 of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding the City's traffic regulations. Staff report by Scott Cooley.  a 9. Recess to a Municipal Building Authority Meeting a 10. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held May 19, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: May 15, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.