                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, Utah 84020

                                            STAFF REPORT
                                             December 31, 2019

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: January 9, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6391, maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:        Lofts at Creekside – Final Plat Request
           Application No.:    SUBD-644-2019
           Applicant:          Dustin Kuttler representing Skyline Holdings Group
           Project Location:   13491 S. Minuteman Drive
           Current Zoning:     RM2 (Residential Multi-Family) zone
           Acreage:            1.48 acres (approximately 64,468 square feet)
           Request:            Request for approval of a final plat application for an 18 unit condominium
                               development.

BACKGROUND and SUMMARY
On September 12, 2019, the Planning Commission approved the preliminary plat for this project. This
request is for the final plat approval. The Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) allows final plats to be
approved by the planning commission as an administrative action item, meaning that no public hearing is
required.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential High Density
land use designation for the subject property. This category will “contain overall densities which range
from eight to twenty dwelling units per acre and can include patio home, townhouse and multi-family
residential product types.”

The property has been assigned the RM2 zoning classification, supporting approximately twelve dwelling
units per acre. The purpose of the RM2 zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin
homes, and condominiums at relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and
compatible with surrounding land uses.”

The RM2 zoning designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Residential High Density land use designation. The property is completely surrounded by RM1 and RM2
zoning.




Lofts at Creekside                                                                       App. # SUBD-644-2019
Final Plat                                             1
Subdivision Layout. The approved preliminary plat depicted two buildings on the site, a ten-plex and an
eight-plex. The proposed plat also shows the same two buildings but now divides the buildings into 18
individual units. A condominium plat allows a buyer to simply purchase the air space leaving the
building itself under the ownership of the homeowners association (HOA).

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a final subdivision plat request is
found in Section 17-4-060 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

           “Within a reasonable time following the recommended approval of the final plat by the Zoning
           Administrator, the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its review and
           consideration. A courtesy notice may be provided for the meeting in accordance with section 17-
           1-085 of this title, but is not required. The Planning Commission shall not be bound by the
           recommendations of the Zoning Administrator and may set its own conditions and requirements
           consistent with this title. If the Planning Commission determines that the final plat is in
           conformity with the requirements of this title, other applicable ordinances, and any reasonable
           conditions as recommended by the City’s staff and Zoning Administrator or on the Planning
           Commission’s own initiative, and that the Planning Commission is satisfied with the final plat, it
           may approve the final plat. If the Planning Commission determines that the final plat is not in
           conformity with this title or other applicable ordinances or any reasonable conditions imposed, it
           may disapprove the final plat specifying the reasons for such disapproval. No final plat shall
           have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by the Planning Commission and
           signed by the Mayor and City Recorder.”

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the final
plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their review of the final plat submission. Comments from this division, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the final plat
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the final plat
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request and make a decision based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

1.         Prior to recordation of the plat, the subdivider shall submit a title report prepared and dated not
           more than sixty (60) days before the proposed recordation of the final plat, to be reviewed by the
           City Attorney.




Lofts at Creekside                                                                           App. # SUBD-644-2019
Final Plat                                              2
2.         That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
           Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
           on the site, including permitting.
3.         Submit CC&R documents for review. Final signed and notarized CC&R documents shall be
           provided prior to the recording of the plat.
4.         Comply with all addressing redlines as part of the mylar submission.
5.         If the final plat is not recorded within one year from the date of Planning Commission approval or
           construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced, such approval
           shall be null and void. This time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to
           one additional six month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing
           for an extension prior to the expiration date of the original one year approval.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.         That the proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
           General Plan such as:
           a.       Support a balance between jobs and housing by integrating housing, employment, and
                    supporting infrastructure in mixed-use centers located at appropriate locations.
           b.       Maintain a citywide balance of land uses that support changes in community
                    vision/dynamics over time.
2.         That the proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
           Municipal Code.
3.         No public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
4.         That the proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development of
           the area.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.         That the proposed development plans does meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper
           City Municipal Code.
2.         That the proposed development does conform to the general aesthetic and physical development
           of the area.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the final plat, as requested by Dustin Kuttler, application SUBD-644-2019, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated December 31, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the final plat, as requested by Dustin Kuttler, application SUBD-644-2019, as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

1.         List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the final plat, as requested by Dustin Kuttler, application SUBD-644-2019, based on
the findings listed in the staff report dated December 31, 2019.




Lofts at Creekside                                                                          App. # SUBD-644-2019
Final Plat                                              3
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS
OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     Prior to recordation of the plat, the subdivider shall submit a title report prepared and dated not
       more than sixty (60) days before the proposed recordation of the final plat, to be reviewed by the
       City Attorney
2.     That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
       Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
       on the site, including permitting.
3.     Submit CC&R documents for review. Final signed and notarized CC&R documents shall be
       provided prior to the recording of the plat.
4.     If the final plat is not recorded within one year from the date of Planning Commission approval or
       construction of the required landscaping and infrastructure has not commenced, such approval
       shall be null and void. This time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to
       one additional six month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must petition in writing
       for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one year approval.

Addressing/GIS Review.
1.     Comply with all addressing redlines as part of the mylar submission.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division
2.     Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
       Engineering Division.

Building Division Review.
No comments provided.

Fire Division Review.
1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of 26 feet exclusive
        of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13’6” inches shall be required. The road must be
        designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall
        be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of
        28 feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
        permits being issued.
2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
        Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
        of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
        temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any, and all permits could be revoked.
3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
        purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
        delivered on building site.
4.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13D fire sprinkler shop drawings are
        to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with
        manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
        or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. There need to be a hydrant within 100’ of the FDC. FDC is
     required to have KNOX Locking Caps. All fire protections plans require third party review prior
     to being submitted to the Draper Fire Department.
5.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
     plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast
     with their background.
6.   Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being, issued. All
     lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FINAL PLAT
