                                                                                               June 28, 2019

Wasatch Residential Group
Attn: Adam Lankford
620 South State Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84111

RE:     Notice of Approval for the Village Shoppes at Day Dairy Phase II Site Plan Request

Dear Mr. Lankford,

On June 27, 2019, the Draper City Planning Commission approved your request for a site plan on your
property at 527 East 12300 South, application SPR-587-2019, subject to the following conditions:

        1.      That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.      That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
        3.      All outstanding redlines and department/division comments listed in Exhibit A of this
                staff report shall be addressed and application documents modified to comply with
                redlines/comments prior to application being eligible to apply for or obtain a land
                disturbance permit or building permit.
        4.      Section 9-5-090(j) of the Draper City Municipal Code specifies that the approval of a site
                plan expires one year from the date of approval. As such, the approval granted for the
                subject request will be rendered null and void on June 27, 2020 if no building permit has
                been issued for the project. The expiration of the approval can also be avoided through an
                extension of the approval. A maximum of one extension for a period of up to six months
                can be requested in writing prior to the date of expiration from the Community
                Development Department.

Please be aware that the approval of a site plan by Draper City in no way exempts the property from
complying with other requirements that may be in effect on the property such as CC&R’s, zoning,
subdivision, site plan, land disturbance, and building permit regulations, as applicable. It is the
responsibility of the property owner to ensure compliance with these regulations.

As the applicant, this letter is intended as a courtesy to document the status of your request. The official
minutes from the Planning Commission meeting are available in the office of the City Recorder. If you
have further questions, please contact me at dan.boles@draper.ut.us or 801-576-6335.

                                                                   Respectfully,



                                                                   Dan Boles, AICP
                                                                   Community Development Department
Cc   Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner
     Ellen Xanthos, Planning Coordinator
     Jennie Larson, Building Dept./Business License Coordinator
     Vonnie McLaughlan, Executive Assistant, Engineering Department
     Karen Burnett, GIS Manager
     Emily Dickinson, Building Inspection Coordinator
     File




                                                    2
