Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis Van Ekelenburg
CC:  Date: April 2, 2020
Re: Highline Signage TA – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to the sign area requirements in the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-18K-070 Signage. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to increase the allowed sign area as the current sign size allowed in the CSD Highline Zone is smaller than the regular Draper City Code allows. The applicant states that this would allow for better sign aesthetics and function in the CSD Highline Zone. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the current wall sign allowance in the DCMC.
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with other sections or part of this title or the general plan.
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 3/27/2020 Cover Memo