Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Pete Kane
CC:  Date: April 2, 2020
Re: Public Hearing - EPG Pony Express Development Agreement, Land Use Map & Zoning Map Amendments Comments: The applicant is requesting approval of a Development Agreement, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment for the redevelopment of a residential subdivision into a warehouse distribution development on an approximately 27.4-acre site in the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot minimum lot) Zone. The findings are as follows: For approval:
The proposed amendments and development plans outlined in the Agreement meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
The proposed amendments are harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
The proposed amendments are consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection .
The application complies with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
For denial:
The proposed amendments and development plans outlined in the Agreement do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
The proposed amendments are not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
The proposed amendments are not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection .
The application does not comply with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 3/20/2020 Cover Memo