NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, August 4, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
Determination 2020-01, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
·         Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
·         COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at high levels and hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at high rates, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
·         It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
·         COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
·         The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder’s office.
To participate, please see the options below:
·           Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
·         Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
·         Those wishing to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting may send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, the day of the meeting. a 6:00 PM STUDY SESSION 1. Discussion: Flag Lots - Todd Draper a 2. Presentation: Draper City Rebranding Project - Britnee Johnston a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1447, amending portions of Chapters 9-8 and 9-11 of the Draper City Municipal Code as it pertains to the Commercial Zoning Districts A city initiated  text amendment to create a new zoning district called Commercial Buffer Zone (CBU).  The proposed zone will be located in Chapter 9-11 (Commercial Zones) of the Draper City Municipal Code.  Other related sections of Title 9 may also be amended as part of this proposal.    Staff report by Maryann Pickering. a 3. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held August 4, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: July 31, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.