                                       Development Review Committee
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, UT 84020

                                             STAFF REPORT
                                             November 10, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: November 19, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:       Beehive Academy – Site Plan and Plat Amendment Requests
          Application Nos.: SPR-1005-2020 and SUBD-1017-2020
          Applicant:        Pace CM representing Rasmussen Family Limited Partnership
          Project Location: Approximately 12197 S. 300 East
          Current Zoning:   A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum) Zone
          Proposed Zoning: CN (Neighborhood Commercial) – City Council public hearing scheduled
                            for November 17, 2020
          Acreage:          Total site approximately 9.81 acres (approximately 427,323.6 square feet)
          Request:          Request for approval of a site plan for a new charter school and approval of
                            a plat amendment to create two lots from one existing lot.


SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan and plat amendment located at approximately
12197 S. 300 East (see Exhibit C). At the time of the writing at this staff report, the site was currently
zoned A5 with a pending request to rezone it to CN. On November 12, the Planning Commission
submitted a unanimous negative recommendation for the rezone application. The City Council public
hearing for the rezone is scheduled for their November 17, 2020 meeting. Should that rezone be
approved at that meeting, the site would then be zoned CN and the proposed plat amendment could create
two lots bisected by a new road. The northern lot where the proposed charter school would be located
would be approximately 6.11 acres (Site) and the southern lot would be approximately 2.64 acres. No
development is proposed on the southern lot at this time. A new road, 12200 South, would connect from
the terminus of 12230 South on the east and curve north to connect with the existing roundabout on 300
East. The subject of this report is for the site plan for the Site and a plat amendment request. If the
rezone is not approved by the City Council on November 17, then the plat amendment would have to be
withdrawn by the applicant as the property cannot be subdivided as currently proposed. The proposed
charter school is for grades K-12 and is anticipated to have a maximum enrollment of 1,000 students.




Beehive Academy                                                                      Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                   1                                      SUBD-1017-2020
BACKGROUND
The subject property has historically been utilized as agricultural or farming land since at least 1978 when
the City incorporated. As noted above, there is a concurrent application to rezone the property from A5 to
CN.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the property as
Neighborhood Commercial (see Exhibit D). This category is characterized as follows:




The property is currently assigned the A5 zoning classification, which allows both residential and
agricultural uses (see Exhibit F). The purpose of the agricultural zones per Draper City Municipal Code
(DCMC) Section 9-8-020 is “to preserve and protect agricultural lands and related activities, to permit
activities normally and necessarily related to agricultural production, and to prohibit land uses that may
undermine continued agricultural activity.” It further states “that the purpose of the A5 zone is to
maintain the status of large tracts of agricultural land by allowing most commercial agricultural uses.
Typical uses include farming, dairy, and cattle production.”

The property is proposed to be assigned the CN zoning classification, supporting small retail, commercial
and office uses (Exhibit E). Per DCMC Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the CN zone is to provide areas
where convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be established to serve surrounding
residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a combination of retail and service facilities
which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of nearby residents.”




Beehive Academy                                                                       Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                 2                                         SUBD-1017-2020
The property is surrounded by a mix of zoning designations. To the east is the CSD-DD (Day Dairy
Commercial Special District) and CC (Community Commercial) zone. The areas to the south are zoned
CC. On the west side, across 300 East, is CR (Regional Commercial) zoning. To the north, the
residential area is zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum).

State Code. Per Title 10 of the Utah Code Annotated Code (UCA), a municipality’s purview in the
establishment of a public school or charter school is limited. UCA Subsection 10-9a-305(7)(a) states that
“a charter school shall be considered a permitted use in all zoning districts within a municipality”.
Although this application is not a rezone application this point is additive to the understanding of the
rights of Charter Schools. Further, UCA Subsection 10-9a-305(2)(a) states “except as provided in
Subsection (3), a school district or charter school is subject to a municipality’s land use ordinances.”
Furthermore UCA Subsection10-9a-305(2)(b) states that “notwithstanding subsection (3), a municipality
may: subject a charter school to standards within each zone pertaining to setback, height, bulk and
massing regulations, off-site parking, curb cut, traffic circulation, and construction staging; and
impose regulations upon the location of a project that are necessary to avoid unreasonable risks to
health or safety, as provided in subsection (3)(f).” UCA Subsection 10-9a-305(3)(a) also states that: “A
municipality may not impose requirements for landscaping, fencing, aesthetic considerations,
construction methods or materials, additional building inspections, municipal building codes, building
use for educational purposes, or the placement or use of temporary classroom facilities on school
property.” Most of this staff review, is therefore, informational only.

Site Plan
Charter School Site Plan Layout. The applicant is proposing the new charter school to be constructed
towards the northern portion of the existing lot, the Site (see Exhibit F). There will be a row of parking
and two access, or pick up and drop off lanes, between the building and northern property line.
Additional parking and access lanes will be located along the eastern side of the lot. An open space area
including a small play area and soccer field will be located to the south of the building.

Landscaping. Per the Utah State Code, the charter school is exempt from any landscaping standards the
City has within its code. However, there will be an area with a small soccer field and landscaping around
the building. The applicant has indicated on their plan that landscaping will take up approximately 1.95
acres, or 31.81%, of the Site.

Parking. The Site plan for the school in Exhibit E shows the proposed parking for the school. Based on
the requirements of the DCMC, the school is required to provide a total of 311 parking stalls. A
minimum of 223 stalls are required for the elementary and middle school and 88 parking stalls are
required for the high school. The applicant has provided 311 stalls on the site. However, a total of 113 of
the required 311 parking stalls have been designated as evening or events stalls for the school. The 113
parking stalls are also the area where the stacking or queuing lanes for the drop off and pick up of
students will occur each school day and therefore unavailable to be used as parking during those times.
This will essentially leave 198 parking stalls for all employees, teachers, visitors, and high school
students who are of driving age. There is a concern by staff that the 198 stalls may not be enough parking
and the DCMC does not have a provision for evening or event stalls in the parking requirements.

DCMC Section 9-3-040 defines a parking space as:

          “PARKING SPACE: An area designated within a building, parking lot, or other parking area for
          the parking or storage of one motor vehicle.”




Beehive Academy                                                                       Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                 3                                         SUBD-1017-2020
In addition, DCMC Section 9-25-030 defines parking to be provided as:

          9-25-030: Parking to be Provided:
          A.     Parking Required: Every land use established under the authority of this title shall have
                 parking as required by this chapter. Each person who establishes any such land use
                 shall provide the required parking. The establishment of a land use shall include any
                 change in use and any increase in the capacity or intensity of an existing use.
          B.     Continuing Obligation to Provide Parking: Provision of parking as required by this
                 chapter shall be a continuing obligation so long as a use continues which requires
                 parking. It shall be unlawful for any building owner, land use operator, or person
                 responsible for providing parking to discontinue or dispense with required parking
                 facilities without providing an alternate parking area which meets the requirements of
                 this chapter.
          C.     Alteration Where Parking Insufficient: A building, structure, or use which lacks sufficient
                 parking as required by this chapter may not be altered, enlarged, or changed unless
                 additional parking for the alteration, enlargement, or change is supplied that meets the
                 requirements of this chapter.

Therefore it is staff’s opinion based on the DCMC, that all required parking must be provided at all times
unless a deviation or shared parking agreement is approved by the Planning Commission. The applicant
has submitted both a parking study and traffic impact study to address the issue (see Exhibits I and J).

In the parking study, it is noted that the 113 stalls used for the stacking or queuing will not be available
for approximately two hours each day. The parking study discusses parking demand rates from the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) which indicate that a school similar to Beehive Academy
would only need 198 permanent parking stalls to accommodate the anticipated demand. The report finds
that there is sufficient parking at all times for the anticipated demand all day. However, a concern of staff
is the ability of the school to ensure that no parking stalls that are designated for pickup and drop off are
not utilized at all during the day. One car parked in the area could significantly impact the traffic
circulation an area that a City is allowed to regulate per UCA 10-9a-305(2)(b), of the site during either
drop off or pick up. The applicant has noted that it will be something that the school will monitor and
enforce.

DCMC Section 9-25-090(A) and Table 9-25-100 requires the below parking ranges for schools. The
proposed 311 stalls complies with the parking minimum and maximum standard found in the DCMC.
However, as noted above, the 198 stalls recommended falls short of the minimum and maximum
requirements of the DCMC and the natural deviation of 10 percent as outlined in the DCMC. For that
reason, the applicant has requested a parking deviation from the Planning Commission to exceed the
natural deviation of 10 percent.




Beehive Academy                                                                        Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                  4                                         SUBD-1017-2020
                                                                                         Parking 10% +/-
                                 Parking           Number of         Base Parking
      Land Use                                                                           Min/Max Range
                               Requirement      Students/Capacity     Required
                                                                                            Required
                              1 space per 4
                            students based on
 Elementary                                           680                  170                153 – 187
                            maximum student
                                population
                              1 space per 4
                            students based on
 Middle School*                                       210                  53                  48 – 59
                            maximum student
                                population
                             1 space per 1.25
                            students based on
 High School                                          110                  88                  80 – 97
                            maximum student
                                population
 Total                                           1,000              311               281 – 343
* The High School includes grades 7-12, which includes the middle school population. Because the
   DCMC breaks out middle and high school populations, the parking calculation has also been broken
   out based on the information in the applicant’s parking study.

Planning staff has reviewed the study and found that the report was prepared by a licensed professional
engineer who is specifically trained in traffic engineering. While staff has some concerns with the
findings of the report as noted above, staff would concur that it was prepared by an appropriate
professional who specializes in the field of engineering. After review of the parking study by city staff, it
has been determined that the appropriate number of parking stalls required for the school should be 311
parking stalls.

The Planning Commission has the authority to approve a deviation of parking requirements per DCMC 9-
25-090(C)(4)(a). While there are no specific deviations for school uses, staff would suggest that
subsection (a) is utilized as it is for commercial, retail, office and mixed use developments which is more
like a school rather than residential development. Any deviation authorized by the Planning Commission
would allow the 198 parking stalls to be the required parking instead of the 311 required by the DCMC.
Those findings are as follows:

4.        Findings Required: The planning commission may approve a deviation from strict compliance for
          the number of parking spaces required or the calculation used only after making the findings of
          this subsection:
          a.      For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the planning commission
                  must find that:
                  (1)      Adequate parking will be provided;
                  (2)      The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual
                           establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site specific
                           factors of the application;
                  (3)      Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed
                           will not overburden the parking provided;
                  (4)      There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
                           associated uses;




Beehive Academy                                                                         Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                   5                                         SUBD-1017-2020
                    (5)       Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the
                              parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100,
                              Table 9-25-1 of this chapter;
                    (6)       Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide
                              adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking; and
                    (7)       Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or
                              will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;
                    (8)       ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment; or

Staff has included findings for approval or denial and potential motions for the reduction in parking.

Traffic Impact Study. The applicant has provided an updated traffic impact study (TIS), as found in
Exhibit J of this report. The study contains existing and future level of service conditions for current and
future developments, key findings and recommendations along with various mitigation measures.

The TIS indicates, as the city is well aware, that there are significant delays and congestion in the area of
12300 South and 300 East. In order to add the project traffic to the public roads, and continue to have
functioning streets, several of the required mitigation projects identified in the TIS must be constructed
prior to the opening of the school. These improvements are located at 12300 South and 300 East, 12300
South and 450 East, and 700 East and 12200 South.

Traffic is measured by the level of service (LOS) measured by counting vehicles or timing delays and
backups. Current traffic engineering principles state that the typical threshold for acceptable traffic is for
a level of service D, where LOS A is nearly no traffic or delays and LOS F is unacceptable delays.

In an effort to address the deficiencies to accommodate the project traffic, the city, Utah Department of
Transportation (UDOT), and the applicant will work together to construct the necessary improvements. It
is important to note that State law does not allow the applicant to address existing traffic deficiencies per
UCA 10-9a-305(3)(b). Therefore each party listed below will commit to fund and construct the necessary
traffic mitigation projects before the opening of the school:

         UDOT will commit to construct a traffic signal at 450 East and 12300 South
         The applicant will construct the connection of 12200 South through the site and add turning lanes
          on both 700 East and 12200 South. Please note that 12200 South is shown on the city’s master
          transportation plan and is a minor collector street providing additional east-west vehicle travel
          capacity.
         The projects that the city will commit to in order to mitigate existing deficiencies are adding
          turning lanes on 300 East at 12300 South, widening 12200 South from Day Dairy to 700 East,
          and modifying existing intersection configuration at 12300 South and 300 East to add left turn
          lanes.

Per the updated traffic impact study, the resulting LOS in the area will be LOS D or better once the city,
UDOT, and the applicant complete the offsite projects. LOS D still reflects delays, but will function at an
improved level of congestion than exists today after the addition of the project traffic.

Emergency Vehicle Access. The Utah State Fire Marshal’s Office does have jurisdiction over the school,
however, the Draper City Fire Department is the responding agency and has provided comments with
regards to Emergency Vehicle Access. The Utah State Fire Marshal’s Office reviews and inspects all life
safety systems during construction and enforces any requirements of the Draper City Fire Department.




Beehive Academy                                                                            Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                      6                                         SUBD-1017-2020
The access and configuration along the north side of the building is concerning. There is a notation on the
site plan that the 300 East entrance is an emergency access only, but it is not clear how this will be only
used for emergencies. The site plan shows lane configurations with a right or left turn exit along with a
stop sign.

Another concern with the north side of the site plan is that there are two lanes of stacking vehicles which
could block emergency access to the site if an emergency was to occur during the drop off or pick up
hours. There should be a dedicated fire lane that is always left unobstructed. The final concern with the
north side is related to the previous concern as the fire riser is on the north side of the building and there
would be no access to that fire riser if there are cars stacked or parked in that area.

Along the east side of the building, the stacking presents a similar concern as noted above. The site plan
shows both a drop off and pick up lane with a bypass lane. Similar to the north side of the building, the
east side bypass lane needs to be left unobstructed at all times so that emergency vehicles can easily have
access to the building or nearby playground and soccer field if needed

Architecture. The City has the ability to look at certain aspects of architecture per Utah State Code.
Aesthetics and materials may not be considered but height and setbacks may. The proposed building does
meet the setbacks required for either the A5 or the CN zoning districts. The structure is two stories tall
and the plans note the building will be 35 feet tall, meeting the maximum height requirement of 35 feet in
either zone. Staff would typically review proposed structures, other than residential, in accordance with
Section 9-22 (Design Standards and Guidelines) of the DCMC. However, that Section is not applicable.

Lighting. No lighting plan has been provided, nor is the applicant required to provide a plan as per Utah
State Code. However, a condition of approval has been included for the school to comply with the City’s
illumination standards governing the spillover of light from the site to adjacent properties. This condition
is to ensure there is not light pollution on adjacent properties per DCMC Section 9-20-080.

Fencing. The applicant is not required to meet the City’s fencing standards. A new concrete panel fence
is proposed along the north property line and the existing concrete and vinyl fence along the east property
line will remain. The open space or playground area will be surrounded by black PVC coated chain link
fence.

Plat Amendment
The subject property contains approximately 9.8 acres. The intent is to create two lots out of the 9.8 acres
(see Exhibit H). The proposed subdivision will be possible should the City Council decide to rezone the
property to CN. With the current zoning of A5, it would be not be possible to subdivide as each lot
(minus any road right-of-way) must be at least five acres in size.

Should the rezone be approved, the following is the proposed lot layout. The northern lot, the Site, would
be approximately 6.116 acres in size and would be the site utilized by the proposed charter school and as
described in the site plan analysis above. The southern lot would be approximately 2.643 acres in size
and would be developed with commercial uses. A new public street, called 12200 South, would link the
current terminus of 12230 South and curve to the north and west to connect with the existing roundabout
on 300 East. The road would encompass approximately 1.04 acres.

Should the rezoning not be approved, the proposed charter school would still be on northern portion of
the current lot and the plat amendment application would no longer be possible and would need to be
withdrawn. The school would have the same layout; however, the total size of the school lot would total
approximately 8.75 acres. This would require the applicant to utilize both the area north and south of the
proposed road as the school. The area to the south could be developed at a future date, but would be part



Beehive Academy                                                                          Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                   7                                          SUBD-1017-2020
of the school property and therefore owned by the school. The public street would then need to be created
by another means in order to dedicate it as public right-of-way to the city and install the road and all
associated improvements. The school would have control of the area south of the road and could utilize it
as part of the school or another rezone application could be submitted in the future to rezone the property.
However, DCMC Section 9-5-060(H) would preclude another rezone application being submitted for a
period of one year after a denial. The only exception is that the Planning Commission or City Council
has the authority to initiate a rezone application within that one year period.


Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a commercial site plan request is
found in Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

E.        Standards for Approval. The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan.

          1.        The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                    approved. This is not applicable for charter schools under state law.

          2.        A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                    limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                    materials. Landscaping and building materials are not applicable for charter schools
                    under state law. All other standards can be considered.

          3.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                    plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located. This is not
                    applicable for charter schools under state law. Charter schools are considered a
                    permitted use regardless of the zone and the general plan.

          4.        The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                    development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.

          5.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                    7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                    concerns.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a Plat Amendment request is found in Section 17-9-040
of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

          “The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an
          amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is
          good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has
          been vacated or amended.”


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
proposed site plan and plat amendment applications. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the proposed
site plan and plat amendment applications. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Beehive Academy                                                                             Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                      8                                          SUBD-1017-2020
Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Department has completed their review of the proposed
site plan and plat amendment applications. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their review of the proposed site plan and plat amendment applications.
Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal Division has completed their review of the proposed site plan and
plat amendment applications. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes. Comments
received by the drafting date of this report can be found in Exhibit B.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends that they include the
following conditions of approval:

1.        This project falls under the jurisdiction of the State Board of Education and shall comply with all
          the requirements throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings on
          the site, including permitting of UCA 53E-3-702.
2.        This project falls under the jurisdiction of the State Fire Marshal and shall comply with all the
          requirements throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the
          site, including permitting of UCA 53E-3-706.
3.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of the
          site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
4.        Incorporate emergency vehicle access analysis recommendations and coordinate with the both the
          State Fire Marshal’s Office and the Draper Fire Marshal to develop working plans for emergency
          access during peak drop off and pick up times.
5.        The applicant shall provide a circulation plan for all school functions to the Draper City Fire
          Marshal prior to the opening of the school.
6.        Prior to issuance of a Land Disturbance Permit, the applicant shall provide a commitment (or
          agreement) for each of the following projects, as identified:
          a.        Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT): construction of the traffic signal at
                    450 East and 12300 South;
          b.        Applicant: construction of the connection of 12200 South through the site;
          c.        Applicant: construction of a right turn lane on both 700 East and 12200 South at
                    the intersection;
          d.        City: construction of the left turning lanes on 300 East at 12300 South; and
          e.        City: construction of the widening of 12200 South from Day Dairy to 700 East.
7.        Obtain a Land Disturbance Permit prior to construction activities onsite.
8.        An encroachment permit is required for any work in a public right-of-way.
9.        Verify drainage report includes the full site development conditions, if the full 8.75 acre site is
          required due to zoning, and add the final site plan layout, including site phasing plan, to report.
10        On site lighting should comply with standards found in Section 9-20-070 and 9-20-080(A)
          (Illumination Standards) of the Draper City Municipal Code.




Beehive Academy                                                                        Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                  9                                         SUBD-1017-2020
The findings for a parking deviation approval are as follows:

1.        Adequate parking will be provided.
2.        The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual establishment in
          the development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
3.        Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will not
          overburden the parking provided.
4.        There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all associated uses.
5.        Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the parking
          calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1 of this
          chapter.
6.        Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide adequate
          transportation to offset any reduction in parking.
7.        Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will provide
          adequate parking for that expansion or addition.
8.        ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.

The findings for site plan approval are as follows:

1.        The proposed development plans meet the applicable requirements and provisions of the Draper
          City Municipal Code.
2.        The proposed development conforms with the physical development of the area.
3.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, pending the
          construction of the improvements recommended in the traffic study.

The findings for plat amendment approval are as follows:

1.        The proposed plat amendment meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General
          Plan.
2.        The proposed plat amendment will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of
          the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
3.        There is good cause for the amendment and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been
          vacated or amended.

The findings for a parking deviation denial are as follows:

1.        Adequate parking will not be provided.
2.        The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual establishment in
          the development is not overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
3.        Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will overburden
          the parking provided.
4.        There is an not adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all associated
          uses.
5.        Site or use specific conditions or factors provide for compliance with the parking calculation used
          or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1 of this chapter.

The findings for site plan denial is are follows:

1.        The proposed site plan for the charter school fails to comply with the standards found in UCA 10-
          9a-305(2)(b)(i)(A) which states: “subject a charter school to standards within each zone
          pertaining to setback, height, bulk and massing regulations, off-site parking, curb cut, traffic



Beehive Academy                                                                         Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                  10                                         SUBD-1017-2020
          circulation, and construction staging; and impose regulations upon the location of a project that
          are necessary to avoid unreasonable risks to health or safety, as provided in subsection (3)(f)”.

The findings for plat amendment denial is as follows:

1.        There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment.


MODEL MOTIONS
Parking Study for Reduction in Required Spaces (DCMC 9-25-090(C)(4)(a))
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the reduction in parking, as requested by Pace
CM, representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the reduction in parking, as requested by
Pace CM, representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the reduction in parking, as requested by Pace CM,
representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.

Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Pace CM,
representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan, as requested by Pace CM,
representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020, and as modified
by the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Pace CM, representing the
Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SPR-1005-2020, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.

Plat Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested by Pace CM,
representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SUBD-1017-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Plat Amendment, as requested by Pace CM,
representing the Rasmussen Limited Family Partnership, application SUBD-1017-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated November 10, 2020.




Beehive Academy                                                                        Apps. # SPR-1005-2020 and
Site Plan and Plat Amendment Request                  11                                        SUBD-1017-2020
                                     EXHIBIT A
                            DEPARTMENT/DIVISION COMMENTS

                  REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF
                           POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
1.     The parking study has shown that a reduced number of parking stalls is appropriate for the
       proposed charter school based on data of other charter schools. The DCMC does not have a
       provision to base parking on data from other schools. The Planning Commission can authorize a
       deviation of parking.
2.     Planning staff has considered the following standards when reviewing the proposed school.
       Those are: parking, circulations, building setbacks and building height. Landscaping, buffering
       and fencing standard cannot be imposed by a municipality.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
1.     Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every private storm drainage
       system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the maintenance plan is now required prior to site
       approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of approval; it is required to be recorded
       and returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the
       site.
2.     The developer is to provide a drainage report including detention, orifice, and pipe sizing
       calculations per DCMC 17-3-030(C)(9) and 17-3-030(F). The drainage report is to meet the
       requirement of the City of Draper Drainage Design Criteria available online. Consider
       implementing LID (low-impact development) BMP’s in the overall drainage design.
3.     Provide service letters from South Valley Sewer District (SVSD) and WaterPro per DCMC 17-
       3-030(I) and DCMC 9-5-090(D)(1)(d)(3)(E).
4.     Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is required prior to
       Building Permit issuance. This is an informational comment that will remain through the
       review process.
5.     Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
       Engineering Division. This is an informational comment that will remain through the review
       process.
6.     UPDATED TIS RECEIVED. Comments provided in meetings and email coordination.
       Resolution to city’s concerns ongoing and includes meetings and coordination with UDOT.
7.     Drainage report provides NOAA precipitation for the area of approximately one inch of rainfall
       depth for the three-hour, 10-year storm. Draper City criteria, in the city’s drainage design guide
       requires 0.93 inches depth for the three-hour, 10-year storm. Applicant may choose to keep the
       conservative storm depth.
8.     In the introduction of the drainage report, it references an incorrect address for the project
       location. In the appendix, the drainage basin and pipeline flow calculations shows an incorrect
       title and general information.
9.     In the Hydrology Parameters section of the report, it states, “In the event a storm surcharges the
       system….” Provide a determination of what storm will surcharge the system. Similarly,
       provide a narrative of the 100-year storm event onsite.
10.    Identify the water quality component of the site storm drainage design in the drainage report.
11.    Pipe 1 is the SD pipeline from the basin to the city’s system. This pipe requires the “n” value to
       be 0.015 for RCP per the drainage design guide. Verify onsite “n” values incorporate the minor
       losses, per the drainage design requirement.
12.     Existing irrigation ditch enters the site at the northeast corner of the site. Provide documentation
        that the ditch can be abandoned, by the irrigation company / water master, or continue ditch
        through site to the tail water discharge location. Verify this site is the only water user on the
        ditch. Response comment indicates East Jordan Canal Company no longer requires this ditch
        and there are no active users of this ditch. This comment is for information only, no additional
        action required.
13.     Raised median required at ingress (eastern most access) to prevent left-hand turn movements
        into the site from 12230 South.

Building Division Review.
No comments provided.

Addressing/GIS Review.
No comments provided.

Draper City Fire Review.
This project falls under the jurisdiction of the Utah State Fire Marshal’s Office however; Draper City Fire
Department is the responding agency and has made some comments below.

1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of 26 feet exclusive
        of the shoulders and a minimum height of 13’6” inches shall be required. The road must be
        designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall
        be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of
        28 feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
        permits being issued.
        A.       There are two access points required that are half the diagonal distance apart of the
                 overall property. This seems to meet this requirement. The parking study and the site
                 plan do not match which layout is correct the site plan with the cul-de-sac and entry or
                 the one without.
        B.       How are you controlling the one way entry/exit?
        C.       On the North drive, how would the fire department access this entry/exit if that area is
                 stacked with cars?
        D.       If the fire riser is on the North side of the building, with the stacking we would have no
                 access to the fire department connection.
2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
        Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
        of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
        temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.
        A.       The required fire flow for this project if it is type VB construction is 2875gpm that is with
                 a 50% reduction in fire flow due to fire sprinklers
        B.       With the reduction for fire sprinklers you only need 3 fire hydrants spaced at 300 feet and
                 there needs to be a fire hydrant within 100 feet of the fire department connection.
3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
        purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
        delivered on building site.
4.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop drawings are to
        be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with
        manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
        or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.)
        FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE
     3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT
     AND THE STATE FIRE MARSHALS OFFICE.
5.   Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser room
     with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or
     a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.
6.   Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for an NFPA 72 fire alarm shop drawings are to be
     sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of
     plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
     level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
     FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED
     TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT AND THE STATE FIRE MARSHALS OFFICE.
7.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to exterior walls,
     near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler
     riser room (at a height of 5 feet to the top of the box). Lock box purchase can be arranged by the
     General Contractor.
    EXHIBIT B
PUBLIC COMMENTS
Maryann Pickering

From:                            Bob Millerberg <bobmillerberg@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Wednesday, November 4, 2020 1:24 PM
To:                              Maryann Pickering
Subject:                         proposed rezone of 300 E 12200 S



Dear MaryAnn Pickering,

My name is Bob Millerberg and I reside at 491 E 12000 S Draper. We have lived in our home since 2002.
When we moved to our home it was on a quiet deadend street. Since that time Draper has grown and now we
have to wait for traffic to clear before we can get onto 12000 S when leaving our home.

I know and understand that Draper has an open road policy, however more and more traffic is being thrust upon
our residential street due to lack of planning to protect neighborhoods. Draper's thirst for commercial property
and growth are endangering the neighborhoods that once made the community strong.

I strongly oppose the proposed rezone of the property located on 300 E and approximately 12200 S. without
measures being taken for traffic concerns for the residence of these neighborhoods. As it sits right now 12300 S.
is not adequately handling the traffic on it. Traffic is constantly diverting to the residential streets of 12000 S
and 12100 S. This has become a major safety concern. With the anticipation of 800 additional morning trips,
and 600 additional evening trips the school would bring, combined with the already heavy traffic congestion,
this is an accident waiting to happen. As we have seen with Juan Diego, school traffic is the worst as people are
always late and speeding through our neighborhoods.

In summary this is simply too much traffic for the residential streets in the area. Safety concerns for the
residents need to be accounted for. Bringing this much traffic to a neighborhood should not be allowed and this
project needs to be put on hold until a solution the whole community can live with is reached.

I would also request to be added to any correspondence in regard to said property.

Thanks for your consideration.




                                                         1
Maryann Pickering

From:                           Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent:                           Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:32 PM
To:                             Andrew Adams; Mary Squire; Craig Hawker; Kent Player; John Van Hoff; Gary Ogden;
                                Lisa Fowler; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham; Maryann Pickering
Cc:                             Scorzato, Kelly; storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson
Subject:                        Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) -
                                Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA


RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA

   -    If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
   -    Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
        environment)

The Street Plan/Master Plan is outdated and needs to be updated to address the implications of all the high
density that has been built in the last 5 years!
Connecting 12230 thru to 3rd East – a 10 Year Old Plan, that did not address the most recent approved/built
high density housing – is bad for Draper City. Draper City government needs to take the lead on prioritizing
safer streets. Years ago, cities made roads work more efficiently for cars, but made them more dangerous for
people, Traffic safety improves livability, walkability, and public health. Prioritizing safety uses a people-first
approach to eliminate deaths and serious injuries.

Streets should be designed to minimize through traffic.
     My children go to school at Juan Diego.
     Children walk to and from school. It is already extremely dangerous for them. The additional traffic
       would only compound the problem.
     The public school bus pick-up is on 3rd East. More traffic would make this dangerous for the children.
     Many people from Draper Village walk their dogs on 3rd E.
     Many children walk on 3rd E to and from school activities
     When Charter Schools is approved it will add more traffic.
     This small residential road – 3rd E cannot handle the burdensome traffic created by the connection of
       12230 S to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms.)

I am always informing the city about the short-cut traffic on 121st street and always requesting our speed
bumps be repaired. I have had many short-cut drivers try to pass me on the left side. On one occasion I was
driving on 3rd East, and started to go slowly, because there was a high school track team running, I had
vehicle try dangerously pass me on the road, because I was going to slow and almost hit some of the track
team. These drivers have no concept of pedestrian safety.
If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
environment)




                                                         1
2
Maryann Pickering

From:                          Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent:                          Wednesday, November 4, 2020 5:20 PM
To:                            Maryann Pickering; Andrew Adams; Mary Squire; Craig Hawker; Kent Player; John Van
                               Hoff; Gary Ogden; Lisa Fowler; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham
Cc:                            storm.peyton@gmail.com; Scorzato, Kelly
Subject:                       RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) -
                               Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA

Importance:                    High


RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA
Dear MayAnn,
I spoke at the Draper City Planning Commission Meeting on June 13, 2019, Opposing the Connection of
12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen Farms ZC-LUC-DA-12197 S.300 E #2, -
where the forced connection of 12230 S to 3rd East was rejected by the Draper City Planning Commission.
I am confused why Draper City, is once again, attempting to force the connection of 12230 S to 3 rd East thru
Rasmussen Farms, when it was rejected just over a year ago?
The local community is not opposed to Charter Schools, or family commercial – but we are opposed to the
forced connection of 12230 S to 3rd East (small residential road) – thru Rasmussen Farms !
I would like to speak by Zoom meeting, to ensure the connection of 12230 S to 3rd East (small residential road)
– does not happen.

   -    If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
   -    Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a very unsafe
        environment)




                                                       1
From: Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:35 PM
To: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire
<mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker <Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>;
John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>; Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler
<lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>
Cc: storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA


Thank you Kelly.

I will include your comments in the rezone staff report for Planning Commission meeting on November 12.

Please be aware there will also be meetings on the proposed charter school on November 17 (City Council for rezone)
and November 19 (Planning Commission for approval of the school). These will all be electronic/Zoom meetings.

Thank you,

Maryann

From: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:32 PM
To: Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire <mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker
<Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>; John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>;

                                                          2
Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler <lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab
Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>; Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Cc: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen Family
Commercial ZA


RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA

   -   If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
   -   Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
       environment)

The Street Plan/Master Plan is outdated and needs to be updated to address the implications of all the high
density that has been built in the last 5 years!
Connecting 12230 thru to 3rd East – a 10 Year Old Plan, that did not address the most recent approved/built
high density housing – is bad for Draper City. Draper City government needs to take the lead on prioritizing
safer streets. Years ago, cities made roads work more efficiently for cars, but made them more dangerous for
people, Traffic safety improves livability, walkability, and public health. Prioritizing safety uses a people-first
approach to eliminate deaths and serious injuries.

Streets should be designed to minimize through traffic.
     My children go to school at Juan Diego.
     Children walk to and from school. It is already extremely dangerous for them. The additional traffic
       would only compound the problem.
     The public school bus pick-up is on 3rd East. More traffic would make this dangerous for the children.
     Many people from Draper Village walk their dogs on 3rd E.
     Many children walk on 3rd E to and from school activities
     When Charter Schools is approved it will add more traffic.
     This small residential road – 3rd E cannot handle the burdensome traffic created by the connection of
       12230 S to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms.)

I am always informing the city about the short-cut traffic on 121st street and always requesting our speed
bumps be repaired. I have had many short-cut drivers try to pass me on the left side. On one occasion I was
driving on 3rd East, and started to go slowly, because there was a high school track team running, I had
vehicle try dangerously pass me on the road, because I was going to slow and almost hit some of the track
team. These drivers have no concept of pedestrian safety.
If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
environment)




                                                         3
4
Maryann Pickering

From:                              Sharon Lisk <sharonlisk@gmail.com>
Sent:                              Wednesday, November 4, 2020 8:18 PM
To:                                Maryann Pickering
Subject:                           Concerns with Rezoning project in Draper (3rd E & 12200 S)



Hello,
We are writing to record and voice our concerns about the possible rezoning of the 10 acres just north of the
McDonalds and Chick-fil-A in Draper.
We feel that the building of a 1000-student school would overburden the area with traffic and congestion. 3rd
East is already extremely busy with school traffic, townhouse/apartment and neighborhood traffic, in addition to
all of the “cut-through “ traffic from 12300 headed toward State street.
Additionally, we are especially concerned about the possibility of adding a connector of 12200 to the round-
about on 3rd east. That round-about is already extremely congested many times a day- lunchtime, after school,
after work hours.
Connecting 12230 to 3rd is a reckless decision.

Why Connecting 12230 thru to 3rd East is Dangerous for the Community
   This street plan/master plan road connection is detrimental to the safety and welfare of our neighborhoods &
      community.
   May have been a logical concept 10 years ago – but that did not take into account all the recent high density
      residential housing. It is now problematic
   All the high density housing/commercial traffic going west on 12200 S, will go thru the Rasmussen
      Development to use 3rd East as a shortcut - instead of 12300. (5 less lights)
           Parc Day Dairy Apartments12200 S (2013) 228 units + 2 cars
           Victoria Wood Apartments 12200 S (2014) – 42 units + 2 cars
           Day Dairy 12200 S ( future) - will consist of 3 new retail buildings, with several matching townhome
              buildings (substantial traffic) – potentially + 500 plus
           Corner of 12200 S and 7th East (future) - Neighborhood Commercial – + 50 cars
           Customers at the retail stores on 12300 will use this thru street. +100 cars
   3rd East is already hazardous with its current traffic;
           Draper Village, high density housing of 184 units +2 cars
           Draper Post Office on 3rd East - generates substantial area. It was originally on master plan to be built
              further east, but the neighbors did not want the additional traffic, so moved to 3rd E.
           Juan Diego Schools +75 cars
           Draperville Community +50 cars
           Cottage Field Community +5 cars
           Ivory Homes
           include the local residential neighborhoods, and others from 3 rd E that use this street as a shortcut to
              State Street.
           3rd E. there is often a grid back-up of several cars, at the roundabout that makes it unsafe.

Kids walk to school on 3rd East, pedestrians walk their dogs, there are cyclists, school bus picks up/drops school kids, and
many local residents have equestrian property.

Thank you for your consideration of our and our neighbors’ concerns about this project being approved.

Sharon and Andy Lisk
419 E 12100 S
                                                             1
Maryann Pickering

From:                              Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent:                              Thursday, November 5, 2020 8:59 AM
To:                                Maryann Pickering; Andrew Adams; Mary Squire; Craig Hawker; Kent Player; John Van
                                   Hoff; Gary Ogden; Lisa Fowler; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham
Cc:                                storm.peyton@gmail.com; Scorzato, Kelly; Planning
Subject:                           Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (propose separating into 2 separate zoning
                                   proposals?)


RE: Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (propose separating into 2 separate zoning proposals?)

Dear Maryann,

As a Draper Citizen, I would like to recommend that the Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – be separated into 2
separate zoning plans. How can we make this happen?

Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – this zoning consists of 2 separate zoning plans:
    Zoning Rasmussen Commercial – Charter School/Commercial
    Zoning – Connecting 12230 S to 3rd East thru Rasmussen Farms

Logic:
     Rasmussen Farms should be developed - (3rd east will have to endure whatever traffic is created by the
       development)
     Connect 12230 S to 3rd East thru Rasmussen Farms – this street/master plan from 10 years ago is outdated – it
       has not taken into consideration all the rezoning of residential into commercial/high density. Connecting 12230
       to 3rd E no longer makes sense, since this residential street is so small and can barely handle current traffic. This
       is a separate zoning proposal and should not be forced on Rasmussen Farms.

Mitigation for Not Connecting 12230 to 3rd E.
     UDOT study of 450 East/12300 South intersections warrants a signal. This will address the traffic needs of
        12230/12200 S.




                                                             1
Sincerely,
Kelly Scorzato
12077 S Katelyn Park Court
Draper, UT 84020
801/450-5435
From: Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:35 PM
To: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire
<mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker <Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>;
John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>; Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler
<lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>
Cc: storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA


Thank you Kelly.
I will include your comments in the rezone staff report for Planning Commission meeting on November 12.
Please be aware there will also be meetings on the proposed charter school on November 17 (City Council for rezone)
and November 19 (Planning Commission for approval of the school). These will all be electronic/Zoom meetings.
Thank you,
Maryann
From: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:32 PM
To: Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire <mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker
                                                          2
<Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>; John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>;
Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler <lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab
Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>; Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Cc: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen Family
Commercial ZA


RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA

   -   If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
   -   Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
       environment)

The Street Plan/Master Plan is outdated and needs to be updated to address the implications of all the high
density that has been built in the last 5 years!
Connecting 12230 thru to 3rd East – a 10 Year Old Plan, that did not address the most recent approved/built
high density housing – is bad for Draper City. Draper City government needs to take the lead on prioritizing
safer streets. Years ago, cities made roads work more efficiently for cars, but made them more dangerous for
people, Traffic safety improves livability, walkability, and public health. Prioritizing safety uses a people-first
approach to eliminate deaths and serious injuries.

Streets should be designed to minimize through traffic.
     My children go to school at Juan Diego.
     Children walk to and from school. It is already extremely dangerous for them. The additional traffic
       would only compound the problem.
     The public school bus pick-up is on 3rd East. More traffic would make this dangerous for the children.
     Many people from Draper Village walk their dogs on 3rd E.
     Many children walk on 3rd E to and from school activities
     When Charter Schools is approved it will add more traffic.
     This small residential road – 3rd E cannot handle the burdensome traffic created by the connection of
       12230 S to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms.)

I am always informing the city about the short-cut traffic on 121st street and always requesting our speed
bumps be repaired. I have had many short-cut drivers try to pass me on the left side. On one occasion I was
driving on 3rd East, and started to go slowly, because there was a high school track team running, I had
vehicle try dangerously pass me on the road, because I was going to slow and almost hit some of the track
team. These drivers have no concept of pedestrian safety.
If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
environment)




                                                         3
4
Maryann Pickering

From:                           Lisa Hansen <lisas1128@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, November 4, 2020 11:36 PM
To:                             Maryann Pickering
Subject:                        Beehive Academy Application



Hi Maryann,

Could you please include the following comments for the Planning Commision?

Thanks so much.

                                                                                                November 4, 2020
To Whom It May Concern:

We are writing to inform you of our honest concerns about the proposed rezone and development for Beehive
Academy, north of McDonald’s and Chick-Fil-A. We are long time residents of Draper and reside on 300 East,
approximately 100 yards down the street from the proposed site. We are committed to this area and its future
development. While we understand that the lot will not remain an agricultural field forever, we do not believe
that another K-12 school in this area is the right fit. It is probably no surprise that our primary concerns are
traffic and safety.

The Skaggs Catholic Complex and the K-12 schools already here, plus the existing commercial entities on 300
east already place a huge strain on the intersection of 300 East and 12300 S. As stated in the traffic study
done by Hales Engineering in conjunction with the proposal (pg. ii), this intersection already operates at a
failing level of service, even without the added stress of the projected 800 additional morning trips, and 600
additional afternoon trips that the new proposed school would bring.

We have several major concerns with this traffic study overall. The first is that it was done on a Wednesday,
which would not necessarily give an accurate representation of the afternoon traffic burden because Juan
Diego Catholic High school has its early release day on Wednesdays. It says some data was collected on
Thursday, but does not specify what. We think that this is an issue that needs attention and
clarification. Additionally, it is relying on data collected over a year ago. It also does not take into account the
impact of the expansion already in progress at the Parc at Day Dairy, nor does it consider the impact of
whatever commercial development will eventually go into place if the lot under consideration is
subdivided. Clearly, the southern 3+ acre portion that would remain zoned Neighborhood Commercial will add
even MORE stress once it is built out, but there is no mention of this in their study. Where would the ingress
and egress for that portion of land be, and how will it impact the flow from the proposed school? The impact of
all of this development would surely amount to a larger growth rate than 1% per year as predicted in their
study. A third frustration is the inaccuracy of the wait times. The study lists a delay of less than or equal to 80
seconds at the 300 East/12300 S intersection. As residents who daily drive that intersection, we can attest that
it is very common to wait 2, and sometimes 3, turn signals to be able to turn left onto 12300 S, or left onto 300
east from 12300 S. It easily represents a delay of longer than 80 seconds at various times during the day even
before the added traffic flow from the proposed development.

As we are sure you are familiar, the proposed mitigations to alleviate this failing intersection involve adding a
left turn lane and a longer right turn pocket on 300 east, widening of 12300 South, and extending the left turn
wait lane at on 12300 S, in addition to adding a turn signal at 450 E and 12300 S. These are large
modifications that would take a long time and a lot of money to implement. Where is the funding going to come
from to make them happen? When will the city prioritize the problem enough to address the issue? We have
come to planning commission and city council hearings for years trying to bring the problem to the forefront
                                                         1
when other developments along our street have been in progress, and nothing has ever been done to fix
it. How will you make 300 east safe enough and efficient enough for TWO K-12 schools? Let alone two
high schools worth of teenage drivers filling it at the same times each day? It is very frustrating to see in the
traffic study that the end goal, even with these costly and intensive mitigations in place, is still a level of traffic
that is “approaching unstable”. That’s the end goal. A letter grade of D; acceptable flow approaching
unstable. How can this be right for our neighborhood? And that’s just for the 12300 S/300 East
intersection. The retail access for McDonald’s/Chick-Fil-A and the Holiday Oil/Auto Zone on 300 East will still
have a letter grade of F, with forced flows and unstable delays. That is an area that is already a mess on a
daily basis.

Another aspect of concern is the direct egress onto 300 east from the school property. In the traffic study (pg.
12) it states that “It is anticipated that this access will be closed during the morning drop off time.” This is a
very vague promise and one that could be easily skirted later on. It is highly reminiscent of the promise made
by the Skaggs Catholic Center that they would never punch through to 300 east on the south portion of their
property. We all know that was an empty promise, the breaking of which brought a large amount of additional
school traffic to 300 East; a street that is defined in the Draper City Master Transportation Plan as a “minor
collector” roadway. The amount of traffic sustained by this portion of 300 east could hardly be deemed minor,
and the proposed development would exponentially increase it. The Transportation Master Plan did not intend
to ever allow this much traffic on our street, and the proposed school should not be allowed to be built.

A final issue is safety. The speed limit on our street is routinely ignored, and the area in general isn’t as safe
for pedestrians as it could be. For example, we have a school bus stop for our elementary aged children at 300
East and 12090 S. At least twice a month and sometimes once a week, we witness cars ignoring the flashing
red lights and stop sign to blow past the school bus at its stop. It poses a major hazard to our kids who have to
cross the street to get on and off the bus. The additional foot traffic that a second school will bring needs to be
considered (though we recognize that the charter school will not run buses), and we need to figure out what we
can do to get cars to slow down and watch for kids. We already have a lot of foot traffic from the children who
attend the schools at Juan Diego, and the safe crossing points are spread too far apart on 300 east.

We appreciate your time and consideration of our perspective. Please do whatever is in your power to deny
the zone change and site plan approval, this just isn’t the right fit for our area.

Sincerely,
Jeff and Lisa Hansen
12057 S 300 E
Draper, UT 84020




                                                            2
Maryann Pickering

From:                           Paula Glassett <NELSON3553@msn.com>
Sent:                           Friday, November 6, 2020 8:08 AM
To:                             Maryann Pickering
Subject:                        Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – Rezoning Forced Connection 12230 S. to 3rd East
                                (Rasmussen Farms)



Dear Maryann:

I write in behalf of my husband and myself in opposition to rezoning the acreage north of McDonalds on
12300 South and 300 East to anything that allows for high density housing or anything that will by nature of
the buildings significantly increase traffic, especially if the main outlet is the roundabout by the post
office. While it appears there will be a connection to 12230 South, traffic heading west and using the
roundabout and will generate more traffic than that heading east to what is already a busier than normal
intersection at 12200 South 700 East.

The issues at hand must take into account this intersection as well as it is already too busy for those turning or
crossing 700 East and is dangerous because of the way the road is designed because traffic coming from the
north is hard to see when you are at either side of the crossroad. Living in the neighborhood and travelling
these roads often on a daily basis, please accept our experience and observations with greater care than what
a developer or planner could possibly see or understand from their view of a map on paper.

Rezoning the property north of McDonald's will not just affect the intersections around 12200 and 300 East
but will impact the city and its residents for a number of surrounding blocks. 12300 South is already a very
busy street, too busy and congested, especially between the 300 and 700 East Corridor. Increasing the
potential for more traffic, which would definitely impact this corridor, is irresponsible and inconsiderate to all
those who live and travel in these areas. Allowing for any zoning that increases the traffic in this area to
include potentially 1,000 children, who would be dropped off and picked up twice a day, would overwhelm
not only 300 East, but all the surface streets and 12300 which as I stated is already overwhelmed. Because of
Juan Diego and the high-density housing that has already been approved, these streets are already
overwhelmed and because 12300 South is already too busy, the neighborhood streets, that should be just
that, "neighborhood streets" that see, hear and feel traffic in a neighborhood setting will become main
thoroughfares for those who need to get back and forth to the zoning that is proposed north of
McDonalds. These streets, 12000 and 12100 South between 300 and 700 East are already busier than a
normal neighborhood street should be with Juan Diego and the high-density housing off 300 East and if this
plan is approved, they will become little 12300 South streets. This is not an observation but will in fact happen
because there are no other options for travel between 300 East and 700 East.

Please hear us. Please consider those who live and drive in these neighborhoods and please listen to our
opinions as we explain that the already busy streets we live on cannot handle any zoning that would increase
the number of cars in the way that is proposed.

Thank you.

Nelson and Paula Glassett
545 East 12000 South
                                                        1
Maryann Pickering

From:                            Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent:                            Friday, November 6, 2020 12:34 PM
To:                              Maryann Pickering; Andrew Adams; Mary Squire; Craig Hawker; Kent Player; John Van
                                 Hoff; Gary Ogden; Lisa Fowler; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham
Cc:                              storm.peyton@gmail.com; Planning; Scorzato, Kelly; Lisa Hansen
Subject:                         RE: Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (propose separating into 2 separate zoning
                                 proposals?)



I think forcing the Rasmussen Farm to connect 12230 S to 3 East is a reckless and illegal
decision.

       This Draper City Planning Commission voted down this connection in it’s meeting on 6/13/2019.
       Why are they attempting to push through a decision that was rejected by Draper City Planning Commission &
        the citizens of Draper – a year ago?
       This out dated road/master plan of street connection, was created when the surrounding area was zoned for
        residential.
       They re-zoned this area for high density/commercial and NOW need to address the Draper street/master plan to
        dead end 12230 S (its currently working fine and they plan on putting a light on 450 E.)
       3rd East barely handle current traffic, and the future Charter School/Commercial – BUT IS CANNOT HANDLE AL
        THE TRAFFIC FROM 12230 S (current & future commercial development)




                                                         1
   



Very truly yours,
Draper City Resident/Kelly Scorzato
12077 S Katelyn Park Court
Draper, UT
801-450-5435

From: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent: Thursday, November 5, 2020 8:59 AM
To: Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>; Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary
Squire <mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker <Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player
<Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>; John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>; Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa
Fowler <lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>
Cc: storm.peyton@gmail.com; Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; planning@draper.ut.us
Subject: Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (propose separating into 2 separate zoning proposals?)


RE: Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (propose separating into 2 separate zoning proposals?)

                                                         2
Dear Maryann,

As a Draper Citizen, I would like to recommend that the Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – be separated into 2
separate zoning plans. How can we make this happen?

Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – this zoning consists of 2 separate zoning plans:
    Zoning Rasmussen Commercial – Charter School/Commercial
    Zoning – Connecting 12230 S to 3rd East thru Rasmussen Farms

Logic:
     Rasmussen Farms should be developed - (3rd east will have to endure whatever traffic is created by the
       development)
     Connect 12230 S to 3rd East thru Rasmussen Farms – this street/master plan from 10 years ago is outdated – it
       has not taken into consideration all the rezoning of residential into commercial/high density. Connecting 12230
       to 3rd E no longer makes sense, since this residential street is so small and can barely handle current traffic. This
       is a separate zoning proposal and should not be forced on Rasmussen Farms.

Mitigation for Not Connecting 12230 to 3rd E.
     UDOT study of 450 East/12300 South intersections warrants a signal. This will address the traffic needs of
        12230/12200 S.




Sincerely,
Kelly Scorzato
12077 S Katelyn Park Court
Draper, UT 84020
801/450-5435
                                                             3
From: Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:35 PM
To: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire
<mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker <Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>;
John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>; Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler
<lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>
Cc: storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA


Thank you Kelly.
I will include your comments in the rezone staff report for Planning Commission meeting on November 12.
Please be aware there will also be meetings on the proposed charter school on November 17 (City Council for rezone)
and November 19 (Planning Commission for approval of the school). These will all be electronic/Zoom meetings.
Thank you,
Maryann
From: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, November 4, 2020 4:32 PM
To: Andrew Adams <Andrew.Adams@draper.ut.us>; Mary Squire <mary.squire@draper.ut.us>; Craig Hawker
<Craig.Hawker@draper.ut.us>; Kent Player <Kent.Player@draper.ut.us>; John Van Hoff <john.vanhoff@draper.ut.us>;
Gary Ogden <gary.ogden@draper.ut.us>; Lisa Fowler <lisa.fowler@draper.ut.us>; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab
Bingham <tab.bingham@draper.ut.us>; Maryann Pickering <maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us>
Cc: Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>; storm.peyton@gmail.com; Suzanne Nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Subject: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen Family
Commercial ZA


RE: Oppose the Forced Connection of 12230 South to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms) - Rasmussen
Family Commercial ZA

   -   If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
   -   Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
       environment)

The Street Plan/Master Plan is outdated and needs to be updated to address the implications of all the high
density that has been built in the last 5 years!
Connecting 12230 thru to 3rd East – a 10 Year Old Plan, that did not address the most recent approved/built
high density housing – is bad for Draper City. Draper City government needs to take the lead on prioritizing
safer streets. Years ago, cities made roads work more efficiently for cars, but made them more dangerous for
people, Traffic safety improves livability, walkability, and public health. Prioritizing safety uses a people-first
approach to eliminate deaths and serious injuries.

Streets should be designed to minimize through traffic.
     My children go to school at Juan Diego.
     Children walk to and from school. It is already extremely dangerous for them. The additional traffic
       would only compound the problem.
     The public school bus pick-up is on 3rd East. More traffic would make this dangerous for the children.
     Many people from Draper Village walk their dogs on 3rd E.
     Many children walk on 3rd E to and from school activities
     When Charter Schools is approved it will add more traffic.


                                                          4
      This small residential road – 3rd E cannot handle the burdensome traffic created by the connection of
       12230 S to 3rd East (thru Rasmussen Farms.)

I am always informing the city about the short-cut traffic on 121st street and always requesting our speed
bumps be repaired. I have had many short-cut drivers try to pass me on the left side. On one occasion I was
driving on 3rd East, and started to go slowly, because there was a high school track team running, I had
vehicle try dangerously pass me on the road, because I was going to slow and almost hit some of the track
team. These drivers have no concept of pedestrian safety.
If Draper City needs an emergency exit – I like the idea of the crash gate on 12200. That makes sense.
Increasing the traffic on 3rd E does not make good civil servant judgement. (it creates a more unsafe
environment)




                                                       5
Maryann Pickering

From:                      suzanne nelson <byusue@yahoo.com>
Sent:                      Friday, November 6, 2020 1:53 PM
To:                        Maryann Pickering
Subject:                   possible charter school and zone change request for 300 east parcel



Hello.

I wanted to voice my concerns regarding the proposed zone change for the Rasmussen
property on 300 East north of McDonalds. I am strongly opposed to putting a school on
that property. There are already 3 schools in the Skaggs Catholic Center complex that
many, many people access via 300 East. I live on 300 East, across from the newer Draper
Village apartment complex (which basically doubled the traffic here). The road is already
overcrowded at key times and unsafe generally because of the speed at which people drive
on the straight road. Every day that Juan Diego School is in session, there are cars parked
on 11950 South because Juan Diego cannot accommodate the number of cars in their
parking lot. There used to be a problem with people parking on 300 East, but after years of
fighting for them, the City finally installed No Parking signs in certain areas of 300 East. In
addition to the general traffic congestion nightmare that another school will add (a school
with a larger student body than Juan Diego has), there will also most likely be another
parking issue. The proposed plan only shows a 1:4 ratio for their high school students.
None of the Beehive Academy's current student body is from this neighborhood so it is safe
to assume that every student will need to drive or be driven there. It seems likely that they
have not allotted enough parking. It would be very hazardous, but the only options, for
parking to spill over onto either 300 East or 12230 South. A formerly proposed Richmond
American development was denied for exactly this reason, parking shortage.
The traffic study suggests some possible helps to ease congestion, but they are fairly major
construction projects and won't be high priority. We have been asking for help with traffic
on 300 East ever since Juan Diego opened the south entrance (that was closed off when I
built my home on 300 East). We have never received any help for speeding by way of
signage, speed tables, etc. I wish someone with some real common sense would take a look
at a map showing the current developments within 1 mile of the proposed school and new
commercial project. There are already several multi-family housing developments. Chick-fil-
A is easily one of the busiest fast food places in all of Draper. 12300 South is the main
artery of Draper and wildly overcrowded. It often takes me multiple light cycles to be able to
turn left onto 300 East if I am heading east on 12300 South. Dozens of cars a day access
Draper Peaks shopping center by way of 300 East. People prefer to use that back way
instead of 12300 South. Dozens of cars access the Post Office by way of 300 East each day.
I understand that the City has plans to put a light on 12300 South at the Parc complex
entrance. That is a fine idea, but why would anyone use that congested street when they
can take residential back roads and get there faster and with no lights? The answer is, they
won't. If an access to the school and new commercial projects is created off of the 300 East
roundabout, that will become the PRIMARY access regardless of where the main entrance
signs are posted. With the addition of multi-family residential developments on 700 East
and 12200 South, the traffic on 700 East has also become overwhelming at peak times.
This many cars and people cannot and should not try to fit in such a small area.


                                                    1
I have no idea what proposed commercial will go into the 3 acres to be rezoned, but I do
know that it will create even more traffic and congestion.
I suggest the City purchase the land for an additional cemetery. Some low impact office
buildings would be fine there as well. A school is a horrible, horrible fit.
Thanks for your consideration.
Suzanne Nelson
12073 south 300 east
Draper




                                             2
Maryann Pickering

From:                              Brent Webb <utahoutdoors@aol.com>
Sent:                              Friday, November 6, 2020 3:15 PM
To:                                Maryann Pickering
Subject:                           Re-zoning


Maryann ...

We have enough traffic on 300 E which only has two outlets unless you use residential street mine being one of them on
12000 S.

Dont allow this to take place .... if you lived in this area Im sure you would voice the same opinon

Brent Webb
574 E 12000 S
Braper




                                                              1
Maryann Pickering

From:                          Scorzato, Kelly <Kelly.Scorzato@va.gov>
Sent:                          Friday, November 6, 2020 3:42 PM
To:                            Maryann Pickering; Andrew Adams; Mary Squire; Craig Hawker; Kent Player; John Van
                               Hoff; Gary Ogden; Lisa Fowler; delainatonks@gmail.com; Tab Bingham
Cc:                            storm.peyton@gmail.com; Planning; Scorzato, Kelly; Lisa Hansen
Subject:                       RE: Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA - (Residential lot owner, 12139S 300E Draper, UT
                               84020, on 3rd East)



RE: Opposing the Charter School Entrance on 3 rd East around 121400 S - (this entrance/access point
must be changed) - as this written notice is standard procedure and the law
   1. Draper City’s proposed zoning changes would physically effect - my residential lot 12139S 300E
      and/and neighborhood !
   2. The Charter School Entrance on 3rd East around 121400 S – is right next to my residential lot. I plan on
      building there in the future and have small children. I am a single mother of two. This school entrance,
      right next to my lot would be extremely dangerous for my children, . I am paramount about the
      safety/well-being of my children.
   3. Charter school entrance/access point is too close to my residential lot.
   4. It would make it almost impossible & very unsafe for me to get out of my driveway in the
      morning/afternoon, with the Charter School entrance next to my residential lot.
   5. Draper Post Office entrance is almost directly across from this proposed Charter School
      entrance. (against code)
   6. Having 2 commercial/school - entrances/access across from each other – this would create an
      extremely dangerous and reckless traffic situation for Draper City.
           a. INCREASED: the Number and Types of Conflict Points Created by these TWO entrances
              increase Crashes
           b. INCREASED: Left-Turn Movements so close together would be increased and detrimental from
              a Safety Perspective
   7. REDUCING: Entrance Density Reduces Crash Rates – removing the 3 rd East around 121400 S
      entrance/access point to 3rd East roundabout
   8. Moving Charter School entrance to the 3rd East Round will reduce the frequency of conflicts, which
      minimizes both the opportunity for crashes and the severity of those crashes,
   9. We need to make 3rd East safe; kids walk to school, pedestrians walk their dogs, there are cyclists,
      school bus picks up/drop offs, and many local residents have equestrian property.
   10. Draper Citizens have been complaining about the safety of 3rd for over 5 years - Draper City has never
       addressed the traffic problems with 3rd East. (I can send you my emails)




                                                        1
2
3
Maryann Pickering

From:                           brodzila <brodzila@aol.com>
Sent:                           Saturday, November 7, 2020 1:33 PM
To:                             Maryann Pickering
Subject:                        PLANS FOR 10-ACRES ON 12200 AND 300 EAST formerly RASMUSSEN FARMS



Dear Ms. Pickering,

Please forward and print this document for the Mayor, Draper City Counsel, and Planning/Zoning Departments,
to be presented at their meeting, and cc me.
Thank you.

THE BRUNATTI FAMILY that reside at 526 East 12100 South request denial of the Beehive Academy and
subsequently businesses contributing to the addition of traffic on to 12300 South, 300 East, 700 East and all
resulting overflow traffic on streets adjacent to this area.

COMMENT: Our entire area is so inundated with traffic it is impossible to get in and out of our own
driveway. Streets at 300 East or 700 East, and 12300 South 11800 South extending to State Street are
constantly jammed. (It literally takes 15-20 minutes to get to Hoope's Vision and Doctors' on State Street at
11800 South from 526 E 12100 S). That's ridiculous. Our family and neighbors come to Draper City Meetings
and voice our concerns as plans and proposals are presented. Each and every time Draper City approves more
expansion and developments were assured there will be no impact, no traffic issues, etc. Not true. There
absolutely is!! You must admit that this area has more than its share of literally "everything". In a few square
blocks consider what we currently have: Commercial Businesses, Restaurants, Post Office, VASA Gym,
Draper Peaks, Victoria Woods Senior Living, Lonepeak Hospital and Offices, The Skaggs Complex (3 Schools
1 Church) 150 East Apartments and Condos, Trax and it's traffic leading to-and-through our area 24/7, Doctors
Offices, Surgical Centers and Private Businesses on both sides of all corridors on 700 East and 300 East. The
list goes on-and-on and must include the south side of 12300 and north side of 11800 South with their low
income housing apartments (being used for some transitioning prison inmates), and their Added
Population resulting in The Lack of Privacy, Safety and Security to this area we now endure. This would
literally be insane and cannot be allowed. More round-a-bouts, drive through and turn lanes will not solve the
problem. We cannot get on any connectors to the freeway without standing traffic now. The 12300 South
corridor is filled to 1300 East and is dead stopped during high traffic times. I trust you're aware of this
dilemma. An additional 2000+ cars twice daily in-and-out of our neighborhood must not be allowed. In
addition, please remember that we already have several large multi-unit apartment complexes and dwellings on
every ingress and egress of our entire area with each unit/rental having 2+ cars. Recent connector roads to State
Street were added to assist with horrible traffic we already have. Do the math. DON'T. PLEASE STOP!!


FACT: We have Acreage and Valuable Horse Property and Single Family dwellings some exceeding Million of
Dollars in Value in this area. That must be considered!! We are the Property Owners and Taxpayers. Draper
City made us promises. Keep your word. WE WERE HERE FIRST!! This is OUR NEIGHBORHOOD not an
Industrial Complex and thoroughfare. We, too, have Rights and Needs that must be met FIRST!! I find it
ironic those seeking to ruin this space don't live here. Do any of you? We're overwhelmed.


NOTE: This is a finite space. Drive around and look. I'm serious. We're serious. Don't depend on a study or
traffic analysis in this decision. You need to experience this for yourselves to appreciate why we are upset.
                                                        1
There is truly not another area in Draper where there so much congestion as we now have in this one small "Old
Draperville" space. NOWHERE!!
11800 to 12300 and State Street to 700 East.

VOTE NO!!


Doris Brunatti - 801.870.7464
Allan Brunatti - 801.822.4442
Davina Brunatti-801.572.7464



Sent from my Verizon, Samsung Galaxy smartphone




                                                      2
Maryann Pickering

From:                              Greg Wilding <gwilding@wildingengineering.com>
Sent:                              Sunday, November 8, 2020 5:45 PM
To:                                Maryann Pickering
Cc:                                aftonballardjoosten@gmail.com
Subject:                           Beehive Academy rezone and site plan application Comments


Maryann I am sending this email on behalf of my Mother-in-Law Afton Joosten:

My name is Afton Joosten, I live at 640 East 12100 South in Draper. I am affected by the Beehive Academy application
because overflow traffic, due to failing levels of service at key local intersections, will be forced down my neighborhood
road because of this project.

We in the neighborhood already know, what the traffic study confirmed, that there is major gridlock on 300 East when
Juan Diego school opens and closes each day.

In the traffic study prepared by Hales Engineering for this project they appropriately identified two of the key problems
that will be exacerbated by this project. The first is the intersection of 300 East and 12300 South. This intersection
already fails and with the anticipated traffic demands of this project it will simply not function. The solution is to widen
300 East and construct additional turn lanes. I propose that these additional lanes extend from 12300 South northerly
to the roundabout to accommodate appropriate vehicle stacking at peak flows.
The other problem is of course the intersection of 450 East and 12300 South. This intersection needs a signal.

We suggest a commitment be reached with the developer to bear the financial burden of this infrastructure prior to site
plan approvals are granted.

We in the neighborhood suggest city staff come experience the “non-covid” peak flows on this road system when Juan
Diego peak traffic flows are present to see what kind of a nightmare it will be with this massive influx of traffic comes
from Beehive.

Please address how you will protect our neighborhood from becoming the relief valve for the problem.

Sincerely,
Afton Joosten




                                                              1
Maryann Pickering

From:                              Gary Tsujimoto <garyt@sjifs.com>
Sent:                              Monday, November 9, 2020 6:31 AM
To:                                Maryann Pickering
Subject:                           Rasmussen Family Commercial ZA – Rezoning Forced Connection 12230 S. to 3rd East


To whom it may concern;
I am a resident of Draper living on 12100 So. (441 E.) since October of 2003. As you well know, there have been many
changes in our neighborhood since I moved in with my family. Many promises made by Draper city have been broken
and I feel we have been misled several times. I was told by Draper city prior to moving in that 12100 would be a quiet
street as 12200 would be punched through and take traffic pressure from anything developed to the south; I was also told
that a Park was going in where the Post Office now sits; I was also told that 300 E. would not be completed... We now
experience significantly more traffic on our street; merging onto 700 E, or 300 E. from either end of 12100 at certain times
of the day is very frustrating as they are so busy with heavy traffic. I know I sound bitter, and I am. My wife and I bought
our home partly based on what we were told by the City. Our dream house / neighborhood is not what we expected. We
moved to our current home from the Sandy area as we wanted to be in a more rural area with more space. We are now
in an area with significantly more traffic congestion and more development that our prior Sandy location. Traffic on the
freeway exit / entrance is also very frustrating at times. Adding developments that will increase the traffic will only make
things worse. I am also very concerned that with the increase in high density housing units (allowed recently) there is a
significant safety issue for children as well as all others in our neighborhood. Crime, neighborhood complaints and
concerns about safety and security of property have increased. These recent changes allowing more housing units, and
increased commercial development are not making Draper a better place to live, we are becoming just another City more
concerned about tax revenue than quality of life for its citizens. Draper council should represent its citizen constituents
not developers.
Please do not allow this rapid, ill planned growth to continue.
Gary Tsujimoto




                                                             1
Maryann Pickering

From:                            Leisa McKane <utahmckanes@aol.com>
Sent:                            Monday, November 9, 2020 10:57 AM
To:                              Maryann Pickering
Subject:                         Beehive Academy Proposal


To whom it may concern:
There is simply no way that our area can handle another school to be built along 300 East. Our homes have already been
surrounded by commercial development and several apartment developments. The traffic around our homes has
already been greatly impacted. Please reconsider how this proposal will negatively effect the homes in this area!!
Thank you,
Leisa McKane
533 East 12000 South
Draper, Utah 84020




                                                          1
Maryann Pickering

From:                            Daniel Dura <daniel.dura@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Monday, November 9, 2020 11:18 AM
To:                              Maryann Pickering
Subject:                         Beehive School Plans



Maryann,

I wanted to take a minute to voice serious concern over the plans to put a new K-12 school on the open lot on
300 E. I live on 12000 S which feeds off of 300 E. Since the Juan Diego school opened the egress onto 300 E
we have been living with daily and weekly safety concerns and massive traffic issues on 300 E.

Almost daily I had to pull my children off of the street when they are walking (there are not sidewalks the entire
length of the street) to protect them from cars (mostly Juan Diego students and parents who use 12000 S as
access to 700 E) who speed through our neighborhood usually going 10-15mph over the posted speed limit.
Also in the mornings and when school lets out the congestion on 300 E is untenable and delays our commutes
considerably.

Also, we already have problems with the existing business traffic (Chick-fil-a and Holiday Oil) on 300 E that
has led to accidents and serious congestion. Also, the recent move to make 700 E more of a business district has
made traffic problems increase as traffic is diverted down these side roads to avoid congestion on 123000 S.

The idea of adding another K-12 school within only a few hundred yards of each other is honestly comical. The
traffic is already a massive issue, and without serious drastic (expensive) changes to the entire areas traffic flow
there is no way adding a school of this size will not cause serious safety issues. Not to mention, changes of the
scope that would be required would likely have other unintended consequences.

Please consider that your team may not be aware of the real seriousness of the traffic. Please visit when school
is already being let in and out, or during lunch/dinner hours when business is flowing. Our neighborhood has
already borne the burden of the decisions made to allow Juan Diego access to 300 E, the changing of zoning on
700 E and the multiple high density developments that surround us. This new K-12 school is just one step too
far.

Daniel Dura
972-284-9836
446 E 12000 S
Draper, UT 84020




                                                         1
Maryann Pickering

From:                           Rebecca Dura <rebecca.dura@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Monday, November 9, 2020 12:16 PM
To:                             Maryann Pickering
Subject:                        Site Plan and Plat Amendment - 12197 S. 300 E.



To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing with serious concerns over the proposed site plan and plat amendment at 12197 S. 300 E. I am a
resident homeowner at 446 E. 12000 S. in Draper.

I am concerned about safety issues and traffic issues that would result from a charter school, Beehive
Academy, being built at this location.

There is already a major K-12 school on 300 East: Skaggs Catholic Complex/Juan Diego. The idea of putting
another K-12 school a short distance from Juan Diego on the same street is a ridiculous proposal.

Charter schools, by their very nature, bring in traffic from all over the valley. Charter schools do not offer
buses, so each family has to individually drive their children to school. My children attend a local charter school
(American Preparatory Academy in Draper), and I can attest that I almost never see carpools when I am in line
to pick up my kids from school. As I look across the carpool lanes, I see a single adult in each vehicle, picking
up 1-3 children.

The traffic in this area is already burdensome. We are surrounded with medium-density and high-density
housing on 12300 South and 300 East. The small single family homes on 700 East are being ripped out in favor
of a business corridor. All of this adds additional traffic and congestion-- and unbearable wait times at
intersections.

Pedestrian safety is already at a critical low in this area. We don't have contiguous sidewalks on 12000 South
and 12100 South, among other areas, that allow for pedestrians to walk out of the streets. I have contacted the
Engineering Department several times to request the sidewalks be finished on 12000 South. As a resident of this
street, I witness daily safety issues-- particularly teenagers from Juan Diego driving too fast down 12000 South
to connect to 700 East when school gets out, despite speed bumps and speed limit signs posted.

As a resident of this area, I can also attest to the long wait time at the 300 East/12000 South intersection. It is
very common to wait several minutes and multiple turn signals to be able to turn left onto 12000 South from
300 East. The commercial area currently used by McDonalds and Chick-Fil-A is already overrun by traffic. The
traffic study did not adequately capture the traffic issues in this area. We invite you to come to our
neighborhood in the morning between about 7 am and 8 am, and then again in the afternoon between about 3
pm and 4 pm to view for yourself the traffic situation and the lack of pedestrian safety considerations, such as
sidewalks.

The traffic impact study conducted by Hales Engineering concluded that the 300 East/12300 South and
450 East/12300 South intersections already operate at a failing level of service, prior to adding another K-
12 school on 300 East. How would adding another K-12 charter school possibly be a good idea?

How is it legal to build two K-12 schools almost side by side with a residential neighborhood sandwiched
in between? Is there not legal protection for the residents in the area?

                                                         1
Thank you,
Becky Dura
4467 E. 12000 S.
Draper, UT 84020
Cell: 415-627-7394




                     2
Jeff Hansen
12057 S ​300 E
Draper, UT

November 5, 2020

To Whom it may concern:

We are long-time Draper residents, and close neighbor of the proposed Academy. We already live within
200 yards of the existing Juan Diego Catholic Church. ​The thought of another school even closer
than Juan Diego is unconscionable to us.

A couple of years ago, Richmond America proposed to build 71 single-family homes on the same
10-acre lot that Beehive Academy would like to utilize. I attended the planning commission meeting, and
at the time there were ​almost no detractors​ from the neighborhood. However, the planning commission
recommended denying the 71 single-family homes, citing ​parking concerns​. I can speak for the
neighborhood in saying that ​we would much rather have had 71 single-family homes on this lot than
a 1000-student school​, and the planning committee’s actions of that night are highly questionable.

Regardless, if parking was the reason for denying a single-family neighborhood, the parking situation
stands to be much worse with the proposed Beehive Academy plan.

From Draper City Code 9-25-030:
A.   Parking Required: Every land use established under the authority of this title
shall have parking as required by this chapter. Each person who establishes any such
land use shall provide the required parking. The establishment of a land use shall
include any change in use and any increase in the capacity or intensity of an
existing use.

Hales Engineering’s parking study states that 198 stalls will be “sufficient parking for the anticipated
demand.” From Table 2 of their study, this means that there are only 36 permanent stalls for 110 high
school students, or a ​ratio of 3.1 high-school students per stall; and there are no buses​!

As a comparison, Juan Diego has roughly 800 parking spots for not quite twice the student count, and
even they are daily overflowing onto the side streets and surrounding neighborhoods. There is frequently
a “luge” of cars on 11950 S on both sides of the street, just south of Juan Diego, which is very dangerous
and will become exponentially more so with the increased traffic from the Academy. There are already
many cars permanently parked along 12200/12230 S, and the situation will be even worse with a
1000-student academy nearby.

The proposed parking is ​not​ sufficient for the plan, and the decrease in driving visibility along the nearby
roads will make them much more dangerous than before. ​Beehive Academy needs to either forgo
their 3-acre commercial lot plans (and add more parking), or be denied this plan altogether.

                                              Sincerely,
                                              Jeff Hansen
Maryann Pickering

From:                            Kenneth Faulkner <kensha3950@gmail.com>
Sent:                            Thursday, November 12, 2020 10:55 AM
To:                              Maryann Pickering
Subject:                         App #: TEXTMAP-1066-2020



RE: Appt #: EXTMAP-1066-2020
Applicant: One West Construction representing Rasmussen family Limited Partnership
Location: Approximately 12197 S 300 East
Request: Request to amend the zoning map designation for the entire site from A5 (Agricultural) to CN
(Neighborhood Commercial)

 I believe this request for Beehive Academy to build a charter school on this property is the ideal project for this
site. It will affect traffic minimally and the school will be a good neighbor and bring in respectable people.

Respectfully,

Shannon Faulkner
625 E 12200 So
Draper, UT 84020




                                                         1
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
            EXHIBIT F
PROPOSED CHARTER SCHOOL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     09/29/
                                                                                                                                                                                           N 0°04'26" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.91'

                                                                                                                                                                  N 89°47'56" E                222.82'                                                                             N 89°47'56" E            388.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WWW.SILVERPEAKENG.COM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              177 E. ANTELOPE DR. STE. B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PHONE: (801) 499-5054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAYTON, UT 84041
                                                                                                                                                   304.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Custom Text




                                                                                                                            300 EAST STREET


                                                                                                                                                   N 0°03'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44,032 SQ. FT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STRUCTURAL
                                                                                         Δ=51°52'47"
                                                                                            R=35.00'
                                                                                            L=31.69'
                                                                                           CH=30.62'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              785.30'
                                                                                        N 25°59'13" W


                                                                                         Δ=103°44'54"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S 0°01'04" E
                                                                                             R=80.00'
                                                                                            L=144.86'
                                                                                          CH=125.87'
                                                                                         N 0°03'00" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE AREA TABULATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12173 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BEEHIVE ACADEMY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                          Δ=51°52'47"
                                                                                             R=35.00'
                                                                                             L=31.69'
                                                                                            CH=30.62'
                                                                                         N 25°53'13" E
                                                                                                                                              N 0°03'00" W
                                                                                                                                                118.13'




                                                                                          Δ=38°25'07"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12230 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                             R=60.00'
                                                                                             L=40.23'                                                                                                                N 89°40'10" W                    225.86'                                                                                                                                                              DATE:09/29/2020
                                                                                            CH=39.48'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT:AW-058
                                                                                         N 64°37'35" W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY: JRJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  117.11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
                                                                                         Δ=44°15'09"
                                                                                           R=150.00'
                                                                                           L=115.85'
                                                                                          CH=112.99'
                                                                                        N 67°32'35" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°57'00" W          244.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        @ 1-800-662-4111    SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AT LEAST 48 HOURS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRIOR TO COMMENCING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY CONSTRUCTION



PRIOR TO STARTING CONSTRUCTION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING SURE THAT ALL REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS HAVE BEEN OBTAINED. NO CONSTRUCTION OR FABRICATION SHALL BEGIN UNTIL THE CONTRACTOR HAS RECEIVED AND THOROUGHLY REVIEWED ALL PLANS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS APPROVED BY ALL OF THE PERMITTING AUTHORITIES.
     EXHIBIT G
PROPOSED ELEVATIONS
                                                                                           BEEHIVE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ACADEMY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIDGELINE DESIGN ARCHITECTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Original drawings remain the property of Ridgeline Design Architects and as such Ridgeline Design Architects retains total ownership and control. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     design represented by these drawings is sold to the client for a one time use, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by Ridgeline Design Architects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rolland@ridgeline-design.com, rollandtlee5335@gmail.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGER - ROLLAND LEE - 801-710-4500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PHONE: 801-392-6882 FAX: 801-621-1494
                                                                                             K - 12 GRADES NEW CHARTER SCHOOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1708 EAST 5550 SOUTH #20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOUTH OGDEN, UT 84403

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           www.ridgeline-design.com
                                                                                                                                                                12197 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UTAH 84020

                                                                                      VICINITY MAP                  PROJECT & CODE INFORMATION                                                                                  PROJECT TEAM
                                                                                                                                             APPLICABLE CODES
                                                                                               PROJECT SITE   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE                         2018      INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONV CODE            2018
                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE                       2018      NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE                  2017
                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE                         2018      BUILDING CONSERVATION                     2018          SCHOOL
                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE                         2018      ADA ACESSIBILITY GUIDELINES               2010          BEEHIVE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ACADEMY
                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE                             2018                                                              830 EAST 9400 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                           E                                                        SANDY, UTAH 84094
                                                                                                              A.     OCCUPANCY AND GROUP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (702) 513-2475
                                                                                                                     CHANGE IN USE: NO                            MIXED OCCUPANCY: NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTACT: H. OGUZ, DIRECTOR
                                                                                                              B.     SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY: D                          DESIGN WIND SPEED: 115 mph EXPOSURE: C
                                                                                                        N     C.     TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION (CIRCLE ONE)
                                                                                                                        I   I     II    II    III        III       IV        V      V
                                                                                                                        A   B     A     B     A          B         HT        A      B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DEVELOPER/CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                              D.     FIRE RESISTANCE RATING: REQUIREMENTS FOR THE EXTERIOR WALLS                                                    ONE WEST CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   X< 5 FT 2HR                      290 NORTH FLINT STREET
                                                                                                                     BASED ON THE FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE (IN HOURS)                              5<X<10 FT 1HR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KAYSVILLE, UTAH 84037
                                                                                                                     NORTH 0      EAST     0     SOUTH 0              0                            10<X<30 FT 0 HR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (801) 540-7559
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             STAMP:
                                                                                                              E.     MIXED OCCUPANCIES:      NO                    NONSEPARATED USES:     N/A                                       CONTACT: SHELDON KILLPACK

                                                                                                              F.     SPRINKLERED:
                                                                                                                     REQUIRED: YES PER SECTION 903      PROVIDED:                YES
                                                                                                                     TYPE OF SPRINKLER SYSTEM (IBC903.3.1) WET                                                                      ARCHITECT
                                                                                                              G.     ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF STORIES: 2                 ALLOWABLE BUILDING HEIGHT: 55 ft ACTUAL HEIGHT: 34'-0" ft       RIDGELINE DESIGN ARCHITECTS LLC
                                                                                                              H.     ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR (square feet): 43,500 sf                                                              1708 EAST 5550 SOUTH STE 20
                                                                                                                     ACTUAL AREA FIRST FLOOR (square feet):                                                                         SOUTH OGDEN, UTAH 84403
                                                                                                                                                             44,012 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WES STONEHOCKER (ARCHITECT OF RECORD)
                                                                                      AERIAL VIEW             I.
                                                                                                                     ACTUAL AREA SECOND FLOOR (square feet): 33,572 sf

                                                                                                                     AREA INCREASE REQUIRED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTACT: ROLLAND LEE (PROJECT MANAGER)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTACT NUMBER: (801)-710-4500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE: 2-25-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISION:

                                                                                                                     YARD INCREASE
                                                                                                                     ALL (3) YARDS - AREA INCREASE = .75%
                                                                                                                     ALLOWABLE AREA OF 43,500 sf * 1.75% = 76,125 sf PER FLOOR                                                      GEOTECH ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AGEC ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    600 SANDY PARKWAY W.
                                                                                                              J.     TOILET FIXTURE:                    MALE                                 FEMALE                                 SANDY, UTAH 84070
                                                                                                                       TOTAL OCCUPANCY 1,467                                                                                        PHONE: (801) 566-6399
                                                                                                                                                        WC/UR - 1 PER 50 LAVS - 1 PER 50     WC - 1 PER 50 LAVS - 1 PER 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTACT: JAY McQUIVEY
                                                                                                                       1,467 / 2 = 734                  REQUIRED = 15 REQUIRED = 15          REQUIRED = 15 REQUIRED = 15
                                                                                                                       734 MALE & 734 FEMALE            PROVIDED = 18    PROVIDED = 17       PROVIDED = 19 PROVIDED = 18

                                                                                                                                                        DRINKING FOUNTAINS - 1 PER 100                                              CIVIL ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                        15 REQUIRED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TECHNOLOGY K - 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVERPEAK ENGINEERING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BEEHIVE SCIENCE &
                                                                                                                                                        16 PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    177 EAST ANTELOPE DR. #B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12197 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                        SERVICE SINK - 1 SERVICE SINK REQUIRED                                      LAYTON, UTAH 84041




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PHONE: (801) 499-5054




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NEW SCHOOL
                                                                                                                                                        1 SINK REQUIRED
                                                                                                                                                        2 PROVIDED                                                                  CONTACT: JOSHUA JENSEN
/Users/rollandtlee/Desktop/April 30 2020 Meeting Beehive/Beehive 5 1 2020 01.pln




                                                                                                              K.      FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (hours)                                             LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                    ASSEMBLY                                                     ASSEMBLY
                                                                                                                   ELEMENT                    HOURS LISTING     ELEMENT                                    HOURS LISTING            PKJ DESIGN GROUP, LLC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3450 N. TRIUMPH BLVD. STE. 102
                                                                                                               EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS               0          TABLE 720.1(2) FLOORS-CEILING FLOORS          0                      LEHI, UTAH 84043
                                                                                                                                                               3.1.4 (EQT 4.2) ROOFS-CEILING ROOFS           0                      OFFICE (801) 801-960-2698
                                                                                                               INTERIOR BEARING WALLS               0                          EXTERIOR DOOR AND WINDOWS     0                      CONTACT: JEREMY AINSWORTH, PLA
                                                                                                               EXTERIOR NON-BEARING WALLS           0                          SHAFT ENCLOSURES              1 HR
                                                                                                               STRUCTURAL FRAME                     0                          FIRE WALLS                    N/A
                                                                                                               PARTITIONS - PERMANENT               0                       N/AFIRE PARTITIONS               N/A                   STRUCTURAL ENGINEER
                                                                                   PROPOSED SITE PLAN          FIRE BARRIERS                        0          TABLE 720.1(2) SMOKE PARTITIONS
                                                                                                                                                               3.1.4 (EQT 5.3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                             N/A                   SILVERPEAK ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   177 EAST ANTELOPE DR. #B
                                                                                                               DOORS IN FIRE BARRIER                0                                                                              LAYTON, UTAH 84041
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHONE: (801) 499-5054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTACT: JOSHUA JENSEN                                         1925
                                                                                                              L.     STAIR WIDTH CODE IS .3 MULTIPLIER, HOWEVER WE WILL INSTALL AN EMERGENCY VOICE ALARM
                                                                                                                     COMMUNICATION, WHICH WILL ALLOW US TO USE .2 MULTIPLIER, WHICH REDUCES THE WIDTH OF
                                                                                                                     STAIR THAT WILL BE REQUIRED.                                                                                                                            SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                     PER IBC 2018; 1005.3.1 EXCEPTION 1, REFERENCING 907.5.2.2                                                     MECHANICAL & PLUMBING ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DC ENGINEERING INC                                     Cover Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2688 SOUTH 4050 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OGDEN, UTAH 84401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (801) 388-3920
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTACT: DAVE CRAVEN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELECTRICAL, FIRE & IT ENGINEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DC ENGINEERING INC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2688 SOUTH 4050 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OGDEN, UTAH 84401                         SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (801) 388-3920
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTACT: DAVE CRAVEN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AT-01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIDGELINE DESIGN ARCHITECTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Original drawings remain the property of Ridgeline Design Architects and as such Ridgeline Design Architects retains total ownership and control. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          design represented by these drawings is sold to the client for a one time use, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by Ridgeline Design Architects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                rolland@ridgeline-design.com, rollandtlee5335@gmail.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT MANAGER - ROLLAND LEE - 801-710-4500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHONE: 801-392-6882 FAX: 801-621-1494
                                                                                                             03                                                                                                                                                                           02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1708 EAST 5550 SOUTH #20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     03                                                                                              03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH OGDEN, UT 84403
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.ridgeline-design.com
                                                                                                                                                       08                                   01                                                                                                                                                                                                                             07
                                                                                                                                                                                      08                      01
                                                                                                                       07                                         03                                                                       01                         02                                  07
                                                                                             03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           03                       03                               03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11             11         02
                                                                                                                                                            08                                                                                                                                                                                                           08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                             06                                                 04                                                                                                              02
                                                                                                                                                                       15                                                                                                                           18              06                                                                  15    04                    06
                                                                                                                                                           18                                                                         09                                                                                                                                           18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         08
                                                                                                                                                      08                                                                                                                             11             17
                                                                                                                                                                                 11                                                                                                                                                                                      08        17               16
                                                                                                                                                            17                                                                   03




                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH ELEVATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    02
                                                                                             03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                03
                                                                                                                            08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                02
                                                                                                                                                                                                 01                                                                                                                                                                                                            07
                                                                                             07                                        03                                                                                        01                                         01
                                                                                                                                                                                 08                                                                                                                                                                                      11                              02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11    02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STAMP:

                                                                                                                            08

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            04
                                                                                                                                                                            03                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                              06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              02                          06
                                                                                                                                            15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE: 2-25-2020
                                                                                                                                  04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISION:
                                                                                                                  18                                                                                                                                                  09                                                                                                                     18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                            08                                              03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            03
                                                                                                                                                                 11                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17
                                                                                                                  17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TECHNOLOGY K - 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BEEHIVE SCIENCE &


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12197 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW SCHOOL
                                                                                                                                                      HIGH SCHOOL ENTRANCE, ADMINISTRATION AREA AND MAIN ENTRANCE
/Users/rollandtlee/Desktop/April 30 2020 Meeting Beehive/Beehive 5 1 2020 01.pln




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ID        MATERIAL                   COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     02                  02                         01 ALUMINUM PANEL        STAINLESS STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    03              02 ALUMINUM PANEL             BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    03    SMOOTH FACE             BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    04   METAL FLASHING           BLACK
                                                                                   03              08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08                                                                                                                                  07             05    SMOOTH FACE             GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 03                                         01             01                                                                            11                         06      SPLIT FACE         DARK GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08
                                                                                                                                        01                                            02               02                                                                                                 01                              11                                        07    SMOOTH FACE          LIGHT GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                            03                  03                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NO:
                                                                                                       03                                                                                                        07                                                                                                       02                                                        08    SMOOTH FACE             GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                 01                                                                                                                                                                                 02                                                                                                 1925
                                                                                   07                                                                                                      11    02                         08                                                                                                                                                      09 ALUMINUM SHADE        GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                      11    07
                                                                                                  08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10 ALUMINUM LETTERING GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       04                                      04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11        FRAMES         GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                             04
                                                                                                                                                                                                  02        06 06                                03                                                                                                                                 12    SMOOTH FACE          DARK GRAY                  ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            04 15
                                                                                                                                 03                                              10                    18             18                                                                                       10                                                                   13     METAL STAIRS       DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                 03                                                                                                                                                                                       02              02
                                                                                                                                                                                      09                                   08               03                   09                        03                                                                       06              14 STANDING SEAM ROOFING  DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                  15                                                                                   17             17
                                                                                                        04                                       09                         03                                                        11                                                                       09                                                                   15   BEHIND CANOPY SMOOTH DARK GRAY
                                                                                   06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18                              16 DOORS & FRAMES         DARK BRONZE
                                                                                        08         18                                                                                                                                                                                                                      03
                                                                                                                                 03                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17      SONIC TUBE        DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                       11                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11                                        18      TUBE STEEL        DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17
                                                                                                  17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                19    WINDOW GLASS        DARK BRONZE         SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20 WINDOWS FRAMES         DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SPLIT FACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BLACK      A-201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RIDGELINE DESIGN ARCHITECTS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Original drawings remain the property of Ridgeline Design Architects and as such Ridgeline Design Architects retains total ownership and control. The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            design represented by these drawings is sold to the client for a one time use, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by Ridgeline Design Architects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rolland@ridgeline-design.com, rollandtlee5335@gmail.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT MANAGER - ROLLAND LEE - 801-710-4500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHONE: 801-392-6882 FAX: 801-621-1494
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1708 EAST 5550 SOUTH #20
                                                                                                                                                                                                    03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOUTH OGDEN, UT 84403
                                                                                                                                                                03                                                                                 03




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  www.ridgeline-design.com
                                                                                                                                              03

                                                                                                                                                      07                                                                07                         07




                                                                                                                                                      15         04            15             06
                                                                                                                                                           18                            18                  18   15                         15             18
                                                                                                                                               06                                                                            04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  06
                                                                                                                                                           17         11            06   17                             11                             16   17
                                                                                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                                                                                 EAST ELEVATION



                                                                                                                                         03                                03                           03                         03                                  03

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STAMP:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            03
                                                                                                                                    07                                07                                                                07                   07
                                                                                                                                                                                                        07                                                                                                                                  LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                 ID         MATERIAL               COLOR
                                                                                                                                                      12                                 12                        12                                                                                                 01 ALUMINUM PANEL        STAINLESS STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      02 ALUMINUM PANEL             BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE: 2-25-2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      03    SMOOTH FACE             BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISION:
                                                                                                                                    06                               06                            06                             06                                                                                  04   METAL FLASHING           BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  06                                                  05    SMOOTH FACE             GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      06      SPLIT FACE         DARK GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      07    SMOOTH FACE          LIGHT GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      08    SMOOTH FACE             GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      09 ALUMINUM SHADE        GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10 ALUMINUM LETTERING GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11        FRAMES         GOLDEN YELLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12    SMOOTH FACE          DARK GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13     METAL STAIRS       DARK BRONZE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TECHNOLOGY K - 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BEEHIVE SCIENCE &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14 STANDING SEAM ROOFING  DARK BRONZE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12197 SOUTH 300 EAST
                                                                                                                                 WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15   BEHIND CANOPY SMOOTH DARK GRAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW SCHOOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16 DOORS & FRAMES         DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      17      SONIC TUBE        DARK BRONZE
/Users/rollandtlee/Desktop/April 30 2020 Meeting Beehive/Beehive 5 1 2020 01.pln




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18      TUBE STEEL        DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19    WINDOW GLASS        DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20 WINDOWS FRAMES         DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21             RAILING          DARK BRONZE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22            SPLIT FACE           BLACK


                                                                                                            03                                                                                                                                                                             04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          07
                                                                                    07                                 07                                                                                                                                                        07                                            14
                                                                                               14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14             16                                                             1925
                                                                                               16           14                                                                                     08                                                                                                                          21
                                                                                          21   13                                                                                                                                                                                                    14                              13
                                                                                                                 14                                                                                                                                                                                             21                                                  SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                      21                                                                                                                                                                               14                                                        12
                                                                                     12                    13          14                 12                     12                                                                    12                                                                   13                                                              ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12                                      21                                13
                                                                                          13         13          21                                 OVER                                                                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                               16   HEAD        16        16                                                      16                                                  21        13                              16
                                                                                                16                    13                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                 13         21                      DOOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET NUMBER:



                                                                                   NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A-202
       EXHIBIT H
PROPOSED PLAT AMENDMENT
                                                      RASMUSSEN FAMILY SUBDIVISION - FIRST AMENDMENT                                                                                                                                                                         SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE

                                                                              AMENDING ALL OF LOT 2, RASMUSSEN FAMILY SUBDIVISION
                                                                                A PART OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 30,
                                                                           TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                       DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                     JULY 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRELIMINARY
                                                                                                                             N 0°04'26" W
                                                                                                                                   0.91'
                                                                                                                  N 89°47'56" E    222.82'                  N 89°47'56" E           388.05'                                                                                  BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                   304.90'
                            VICINITY MAP




                                                                                                   N 0°03'00" W
                                                                                                                                                    LOT 4
                            12100 S ST.

                                                   SUBJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOMINION ENERGY
                                                   PROPERTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUESTAR CORPORATION
 12200 S ST.                                                                                                             Δ

                                     12230 S ST.               Δ=51°52'47"




                                                                                                                                                                                                            785.30'
                                                                  R=35.00'
                                                                  L=31.69'
                              12300 SOUTH STREET                 CH=30.62'
          300 EAST STREET




                                                              N 25°59'13" W
                                                                                                                                                                      Δ




                                                                                                                                                                                                            S 0°01'04" E
                                                               Δ=103°44'54"                                                                                                                                                                                                    OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                   R=80.00'
                                                                  L=144.86'
                                                                CH=125.87'                                               12200 SOUTH STREET
                                                               N 0°03'00" W                                                                                                           Δ

                                                                Δ=51°52'47"                                                                                                           Δ
                                                                   R=35.00'                                          Δ
                                                                                                                                                Δ
                                                                            300 EAST STREET




                                                                   L=31.69'
                                                                                              N 0°03'00" W




                                                                  CH=30.62'                                                                                                                   Δ
                              LEGEND                           N 25°53'13" E
                                                                                                118.13'




                                                                                                                                                Δ


                                                                                                                                   LOT 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

                                                                Δ=38°25'07"
                                                                   R=60.00'                                                                                               Δ                                                12230 SOUTH
                                                                   L=40.23'                                                                                                                                                   STREET
                                                                  CH=39.48'                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACKNOWLEDGMENT
                                                               N 64°37'35" W                                                         N 89°40'10" W    225.86'
                                                                                                                                                            117.11'       Δ
                                                                                                                                                            NORTH
                                                               Δ=44°15'09"
                                                                 R=150.00'
                                                                 L=115.85'
                                                                CH=112.99'
                                                              N 67°32'35" W
                                                                                                                                                                              S 89°57'00" W       244.63'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RASMUSSEN FAMILY SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                              FIRSTDIGITAL TELECOM                  CENTURYLINK                      DRAPER IRRIGATION COMPANYSOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIRST AMENDMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A PART OF THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 30,

SILVERPEAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

      ENGINEERING                                                                                                DRAPER CITY ENGINEER APPROVAL
                                                              PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL SALT LAKE COUNTY HEALTH                        DRAPER CITY ATTORNEY'S APPROVAL                                                                 DRAPER CITY ACCEPTANCE
                                                                                            DEPARTMENT APPROVAL
       177 E. ANTELOPE DR. STE. B
           LAYTON, UT 84041
         PHONE: (801) 499-5054
           FAX: (801) 499-5065
   EXHIBIT I
PARKING STUDY
                                       MEMORANDUM

Date:          May 5, 2020

To:            Draper City
                                                                            05/05/2020
From:          Hales Engineering


Subject:       Draper Beehive Academy Parking Study
                                                                                           UT20-1665

This memorandum discusses the parking study completed for the proposed Beehive Academy
located in Draper, Utah. The study identifies the Draper City parking rates and parking demand
rates identified by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE).

Project Description

The proposed Beehive Academy project is located on the east side of 300 East, just north of
12200 South in Draper, Utah. A vicinity map of the project site is shown in Figure 1, and a full site
plan is found in Appendix A.




                   Figure 1: Site vicinity map of the project in Draper, Utah

                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343               1
                                       www.halesengineering.com
The Beehive Academy is planned to have a capacity of 1,000 students in grades K-12. It is
anticipated that the school will have approximately 110 high school students and 890 students in
lower grades. Based on historical Beehive Academy enrollment data, it was assumed that there
will be approximately 210 middle school students and 680 elementary school students.

The current site plan shows 311 parking stalls on site. 113 of the parking stalls on the east side
of the site are planned as evening and event stalls, as they are planned to be used for stacking
and queueing space during drop-off and pick-up times and unavailable for parking use for short
periods of time in the morning and afternoon. This leaves 198 parking stalls that will available all
of the time, with the remaining 113 parking stalls available for most of the day.

Draper City Parking Code

The Draper City code specifies parking rates for various land use types. According to Section 9-
25-100 of the code, the City requires 1 parking stall per 1.25 high school students and 1 parking
stall per 4 elementary and middle school students. The required parking stalls based on the
proposed student count is provided in Table 1. As shown, 311 parking stalls are required based
on City code. The provided 311 parking stalls meet this requirement, though 113 stalls are
planned to be unavailable for approximately 2 hours per weekday.

                          Table 1: Draper City Parking Requirements
                                   Draper City Parking Requirements
                                                             Parking Rate      Required
                        Land Use               Students
                                                           (students/stall)     Parking
                   Elementary School              680             4               170
                     Middle School                210             4               53
                      High School                 110            1.25             88
                         Total                   1,000                            311

ITE Parking Demand Rates

Hales Engineering referenced the ITE Parking Generation, 5th Edition, 2019, to identify national
standards for parking for schools. The ITE Parking Generation rates are based on actual parking
demand data collection at other schools around the country. Based on standard practice, Hales
Engineering referenced the 85th percentile rates for elementary, middle, and high schools. The
85th percentile rates represent a higher-than-average parking demand. The number of stalls
recommended based on ITE parking demand rates is shown in Table 2.

As shown, ITE suggests that approximately 198 parking stalls are needed on site to accommodate
the anticipated demand. With 198 permanent parking stalls on site, this indicates that there is
sufficient parking at all times for the anticipated demand, even during drop-off and pick-up times.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343              2
                                       www.halesengineering.com
                                Table 2: ITE Parking Generation
                                      ITE Parking Generation
                                           Parking Rate - ITE       Equivalent
                                                                                       Required
         Land Use (ITE #)      Students     85th Percentile        Parking Rate
                                                                                        Parking
                                            (stalls/student)     (students/stall)
     Elementary School (520)      680             0.2                   5.0              136
       Middle School (522)        210             0.12                  8.3              26
        High School (530)         110             0.32                  3.1              36
              Total              1,000                                                   198

Discussion

With a total of 311 provided parking stalls, the proposed Beehive Academy meets Draper City’s
required amount of 311 stalls. However, 113 of the stalls will be unavailable for approximately 2
hours per weekday to provide sufficient on-site stacking/queueing space. The parking demand
rates provided by ITE suggest that only 198 stalls are needed for Beehive Academy. This
suggests that the 198 permanent parking stalls will be sufficient for the school. The additional
stalls in the stacking area can be made available during school time between drop-off and pick-
up times as surplus parking supply. Therefore, it is anticipated that the provided parking supply
shown in the site plan is sufficient for Beehive Academy.

Conclusions / Recommendations

The following are the key findings and recommendations from this parking study:
   • The proposed Beehive Academy is anticipated to have a capacity of 1,000 K-12 students,
        with approximately 110 high school students, 210 middle school students, and 680
        elementary school students, based on historical Beehive Academy enrollment data.
   • The current site plan has 311 total planned parking stalls, 198 of which are always
        available. The remaining 113 parking stalls will be unavailable during key drop-off and
        pick-up times for the school, as they will be used for stacking / queueing space.
            o Draper City code requires that 311 parking stalls be provided on site. The site
               meets this requirement, though 113 parking stalls are used during key drop-off and
               pick-up times.
            o According to ITE parking demand rates, it is anticipated that the site will need
               approximately 198 parking stalls for the anticipated demand.
                    Based on the ITE data, it is anticipated that the proposed 311 stalls, and
                       198 permanent stalls, will be sufficient parking for the anticipated demand
                       of the Beehive Academy.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343              3
                                       www.halesengineering.com
             APPENDIX A
                                                          Site Plan




1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
               www.halesengineering.com
      EXHIBIT J
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY
Beehive Academy
Traffic Impact Study Update




             Draper, Utah
                  August 12, 2020
                        UT20-1665
                                                                08/12/2020




1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                  www.halesengineering.com
                                                            Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                      Traffic Impact Study



                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the proposed Beehive Academy Charter
School development located in Draper, Utah. The Beehive Academy Charter School project is
located at approximately 325 East 12200 South.

Included within the analyses for this study are the traffic operations and recommended mitigation
measures for existing conditions and plus project conditions (conditions after development of the
proposed project) at key intersections and roadways near the site. Future 2025 conditions were
also analyzed.

The morning peak hour level of service (LOS) was computed for each study intersection. The
results of this analysis are shown in Table ES-1. Recommended storage lengths are shown in
Table ES-2.




                                                                                                i
                                                            Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                      Traffic Impact Study




SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS/RECOMMENDATIONS

The following is a summary of key findings and recommendations:
        • The 300 East / 12300 South and 450 East / 12300 South intersections operate at
           failing levels of service during the morning peak hour in existing (2020) background
           conditions. All other study intersections are currently operating at an acceptable LOS
           during the morning peak hour in existing (2020) background conditions.
                o Recommendation: That northbound (to westbound) dual left-turn lanes be
                    implemented at the 300 East / 12300 South intersection.
                o A previous UDOT study of the 450 East / 12300 South intersection found that
                    a signal was warranted; however, the signal has not yet been constructed and
                    has been placed on the Warranted Hold list until Draper can widen 450 East.
        • The development will consist of a charter school (K-12) with a maximum of 1,000
           students.
        • The 300 East / 12300 South, Retail Access / 300 East, and 12200 South / 700 East
           intersections are anticipated to operate at LOS E during the morning peak hour with
           project traffic added. All other study intersections are anticipated to operate at an
           acceptable LOS during the morning peak hour with project traffic added.
                o Recommendation: That additional storage length be added for the eastbound
                    left-turn and southbound right-turn movements at the 300 East / 12300 South
                    intersection.
                o Recommendation: That an eastbound right-turn pocket be added at the 12200
                    South / 700 East intersection.
                o It is anticipated that traffic will reroute from the Retail Access / 300 East
                    intersection to avoid delays.
        • The 300 East / 12300 South intersection is anticipated to operate at LOS E during the
           morning peak hour in future (2025) background conditions. All other study
           intersections are anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the morning peak
           hour in future (2025) background conditions.
                o Recommendation: That a 7-lane cross-section be implemented on 12300
                    South from I-15 to 700 East. This is part of a future project outlined in the
                    Draper City Master Transportation Plan (December 2019).


                                                                                               ii
                                                       Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                  Traffic Impact Study



•   All study intersections are anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the
    morning peak hour in future (2025) plus project conditions.
•   All study intersections are also anticipated to operate at an acceptable LOS during the
    afternoon peak hour in future (2025) background conditions.
•   The 300 East / 12300 South and Access 3 / 300 East intersections are anticipated to
    operate at failing levels of service during the afternoon peak hour in future (2025) plus
    project conditions.
         o Recommendation: That dual southbound (to eastbound) left-turns be added to
            the 300 East / 12300 South intersection. This will reduce queuing and allow for
            an appropriate level of service at the Access 3 / 300 East intersection.
•   An on-site out-load queuing analysis was conducted for Beehive Academy. It was
    determined that a queuing length of at least 2,250 feet be implemented to maintain
    adequate traffic flow during afternoon pick-up. Based on existing site plans, which
    indicate five stacking lanes of 500 feet plus an additional 100 feet of space between
    stacking lanes and the pick-up area (totaling 2,600 feet), these requirements are being
    met by Beehive Academy.




                                                                                           iii
                                                                                                      Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Impact Study



                                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................................... i
SUMMARY OF KEY FINDINGS/RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................. ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS .............................................................................................................................. iv
LIST OF TABLES ........................................................................................................................................ vi
LIST OF FIGURES ...................................................................................................................................... vi
I.     INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 1
A.     Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 1
B.     Scope .................................................................................................................................................... 2
C.     Analysis Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 2
D.     Level of Service Standards ................................................................................................................... 2
II.    EXISTING (2020) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS............................................................................... 5
A.     Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 5
B.     Roadway System .................................................................................................................................. 5
C.     Traffic Volumes ..................................................................................................................................... 5
D.     Level of Service Analysis ...................................................................................................................... 6
E.     Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 6
F.     Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 8
G.     Mitigated Scenario ................................................................................................................................ 8
III.   PROJECT CONDITIONS ..................................................................................................................... 9
A.     Purpose ................................................................................................................................................. 9
B.     Project Description ................................................................................................................................ 9
C.     Trip Generation ..................................................................................................................................... 9
D.     Trip Distribution and Assignment ........................................................................................................ 10
E.     Access ................................................................................................................................................. 12
IV.    EXISTING (2020) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS ........................................................................... 13
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 13
B.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 13
C.     Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 13
D.     Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 13
E.     Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 13
F.     Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 16
V.     FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS ............................................................................... 17
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 17
B.     Roadway Network ............................................................................................................................... 17
C.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 17
D.     Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 17
E.     Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 17
F.     Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 19
G.     Mitigated Scenario .............................................................................................................................. 19
VI.    FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS.............................................................................. 21
A.     Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 21
B.     Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 21


                                                                                                                                                                iv
                                                                                                  Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                              Traffic Impact Study


C.   Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 21
D.   Queuing Analysis ................................................................................................................................ 21
E.   Mitigation Measures ............................................................................................................................ 21
VII. AFTERNOON PEAK HOUR CONDITIONS (2025) ........................................................................... 24
A.   Purpose ............................................................................................................................................... 24
B.   Traffic Volumes ................................................................................................................................... 24
C.   Level of Service Analysis .................................................................................................................... 24
D.   Queuing Analysis .................................................................................................................................. 2
E.   Mitigation Measures .............................................................................................................................. 2
F.   Mitigated Scenario ................................................................................................................................ 2
G.   On-site Circulation and Queuing Analysis ............................................................................................ 3
H.   Recommended Storage Lengths .......................................................................................................... 3

Appendix A: Turning Movement Counts
Appendix B: LOS Results
Appendix C: Project Site Plan
Appendix D: Queuing Results




                                                                                                                                                             v
                                                                                           Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                   Traffic Impact Study



                                                         LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: Level of Service Description .................................................................................................... 3
Table 2: Existing (2020) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 6
Table 3: Mitigated Existing (2020) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS ............................................ 8
Table 4: Trip Generation ...................................................................................................................... 10
Table 5: Existing (2020) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS .......................................................... 14
Table 6: Mitigated Existing (2020) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS .......................................... 16
Table 7: Future (2025) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 19
Table 8: Mitigated Future (2025) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS ............................................ 20
Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS ............................................................ 23
Table 10: Future (2025) Background Afternoon Peak Hour LOS ......................................................... 1
Table 11: Future (2025) Plus Project Afternoon Peak Hour LOS ......................................................... 1
Table 12: Mitigated Future (2025) Plus Project Afternoon Peak Hour LOS.......................................... 2
Table 13: Recommended Storage Lengths ........................................................................................... 3


                                                         LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Draper, Utah ..................................................... 1
Figure 2: Visual representation of the LOS letter designations ............................................................. 4
Figure 3: Existing (2020) background morning peak hour traffic volumes ............................................ 7
Figure 4: Trip assignment for the morning peak hour ......................................................................... 11
Figure 5: Existing (2020) plus project morning peak hour traffic volumes .......................................... 15
Figure 6: Future (2025) background morning peak hour volumes ...................................................... 18
Figure 7: Future (2025) plus project morning peak hour volumes ...................................................... 22
Figure 8: Future (2025) background afternoon peak hour volumes .................................................... 25
Figure 9: Trip assignment for the afternoon peak hour ....................................................................... 26
Figure 10: Future (2025) plus project afternoon peak hour volumes .................................................. 27




                                                                                                                                               vi
                                                            Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                      Traffic Impact Study



                                    I.   INTRODUCTION

A.     Purpose

This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the proposed Beehive Academy Charter
School development located in Draper, Utah. The proposed project is located at approximately
325 East 12200 South. Figure 1 shows a vicinity map of the proposed development.

Included within the analyses for this study are the traffic operations and recommended mitigation
measures for existing conditions and plus project conditions (conditions after development of the
proposed project) at key intersections and roadways near the site. Future 2025 conditions were
also analyzed.




         Figure 1: Vicinity map showing the project location in Draper, Utah




                                                                                               1
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



B.     Scope

The study area was defined based on conversations with the development team. This study was
scoped to evaluate the traffic operational performance impacts of the project on the following
intersections:
        • 12200 South / 300 East
        • Retail Access / 300 East
        • 300 East / 12300 South (SR-71)
        • 450 East / 12300 South (SR-71)
        • 12230 South / 450 East
        • 12200 South / 700 East (SR-71)
        • Project Accesses (2) / 12200 South
        • Project Access / 300 East

C.     Analysis Methodology

Level of service (LOS) is a term that describes the operating performance of an intersection or
roadway. LOS is measured quantitatively and reported on a scale from A to F, with A representing
the best performance and F the worst. Table 1 provides a brief description of each LOS letter
designation and an accompanying average delay per vehicle for both signalized and unsignalized
intersections. Figure 2 provides a visual representation of each LOS letter designation.

The Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), 6th Edition, 2016 methodology was used in this study to
remain consistent with “state-of-the-practice” professional standards. This methodology has
different quantitative evaluations for signalized and unsignalized intersections. For signalized and
all-way stop intersections, the LOS is provided for the overall intersection (weighted average of
all approach delays). For all other unsignalized intersections, LOS is reported based on the worst
approach.

Using Synchro/SimTraffic software, which follow the HCM methodology, the peak hour LOS was
computed for each study intersection. Multiple runs of SimTraffic were used to provide a statistical
evaluation of the interaction between the intersections. The detailed LOS reports are provided in
Appendix B. Hales Engineering also calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for the study
intersections using SimTraffic. The detailed queue length reports are provided in Appendix D.

D.     Level of Service Standards

For the purposes of this study, a minimum acceptable intersection performance for each of the
study intersections was set at LOS D. If levels of service E or F conditions exist, an explanation
and/or mitigation measures will be presented. A LOS D threshold is consistent with “state-of-the-
practice” traffic engineering principles for urbanized areas.




                                                                                                  2
                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                               Traffic Impact Study



                        Table 1: Level of Service Description
   Level of                                                                      Average Delay
                          Description of Traffic Conditions
   Service                                                                     (seconds/vehicle)

                      Signalized Intersections                                Overall Intersection

                Extremely favorable progression and an extremely low
      A         level of control delay. Individual users are virtually              0 ≤ 10.0
                unaffected by others in the traffic stream.

                Good progression and a low level of control delay. The
      B         presence of other users in the traffic stream becomes          > 10.0 and ≤ 20.0
                noticeable.

                Fair progression and a moderate level of control delay.
      C         The operation of individual users becomes somewhat             >20.0 and ≤ 35.0
                affected by interactions with others in the traffic stream.

                Marginal progression with relatively elevated levels of
      D         control delay. Operating conditions are noticeably more        > 35.0 and ≤ 55.0
                constrained.

                Poor progression with unacceptably elevated levels of
      E         control delay. Operating conditions are at or near             > 55.0 and ≤ 80.0
                capacity.

                Unacceptable progression with forced or breakdown
      F                                                                              > 80.0
                operating conditions.

                     Unsignalized Intersections                                Worst Approach

      A         Free Flow / Insignificant Delay                                     0 ≤ 10.0

      B         Stable Operations / Minimum Delays                             >10.0 and ≤ 15.0

      C         Stable Operations / Acceptable Delays                          >15.0 and ≤ 25.0

      D         Approaching Unstable Flows / Tolerable Delays                  >25.0 and ≤ 35.0

      E         Unstable Operations / Significant Delays Can Occur             >35.0 and ≤ 50.0

                Forced Flows / Unpredictable Flows / Excessive Delays
      F                                                                              > 50.0
                Occur

Source: Hales Engineering Descriptions, based on the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM), 6th
Edition, 2016 Methodology (Transportation Research Board)




                                                                                                       3
                                         Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                 Traffic Impact Study




Figure 2: Visual representation of the LOS letter designations




                                                                         4
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



               II.   EXISTING (2020) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways during the
peak travel periods of the day with background traffic and geometric conditions. Through this
analysis, background traffic operational deficiencies can be identified, and potential mitigation
measures recommended. This analysis provides a baseline condition that may be compared to
the build conditions to identify the impacts of the development.

B.     Roadway System

The primary roadways that will provide access to the project site are described below:

12200 South – is a city-maintained roadway which is classified by the Draper City Master
Transportation Plan (MTP) (November 2019) as a “commercial minor collector.” According to the
MTP, the typical cross section for this type of roadway is one travel lane in each direction with a
center two-way left-turn lane (TWLTL). There is currently a gap in this roadway between 300 East
and approximately 400 East. According to the MTP, improvements to 12200 South are planned
between 300 East and 700 East as a Phase 2 (2025-2034) project. These improvements will
include construction of the unbuilt portion of the roadway between 300 East and 400 East and
widening of the remainder of the segment. The posted speed limit is 25 mph in the study area.

300 East – is a city-maintained roadway which is classified by the Draper City Master
Transportation Plan (MTP) (November 2019) as a “minor collector.” 300 East currently exists with
one travel lane in each direction and a two-way left-turn lane (TWLTL). The posted speed limit is
25 mph in the study area.

C.     Traffic Volumes

Weekday morning (7:00 to 9:00 a.m.) and afternoon (2:00 to 4:00 p.m.) peak period traffic counts
were performed at the following intersections:
      • 12200 South / 300 East
      • Retail Access / 300 East
      • 300 East / 12300 South (SR-71)
      • 450 East / 12300 South (SR-71)
      • 12230 South / 450 East
      • 12200 South / 700 East (SR-71)

The counts were performed on Wednesday, September 11, 2019. (Additional data was collected
on Thursday, September 19, 2019.) The morning peak hour was determined to be between 7:45
and 8:45 a.m., and the afternoon peak hour was determined to be between 3:00 and 4:00 p.m.


                                                                                                 5
                                                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study


The morning and afternoon peak hour volumes were relatively equal. Because school land uses
tend to have greater impacts on the surrounding roadways during the morning peak hour, the
morning peak hour was used in the analysis to represent the worst-case conditions. Detailed
count data are included in Appendix A.

The counts collected in 2019 were increased to represent existing (2020) conditions. Based on
historical traffic data, traffic on 12300 South increases by approximately 3% per year. Therefore,
the 2019 counts were increased by approximately 3% to estimate 2020 conditions. Figure 3
shows the existing morning peak hour volumes as well as intersection geometry at the study
intersections.

D.        Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the 300 East / 12300 South and 450 East / 12300 South
intersections operate at poor levels of service in existing (2020) background conditions. All other
study intersections are currently operating at acceptable levels of service during the morning peak
hour, as shown in Table 2.

                  Table 2: Existing (2020) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                    Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                    Aver. Delay
                    Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                     (Sec/Veh)
            12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.0                A

            Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     13.2                b

            300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    62.7                E

            450 East / 12300 South                                NB/SB Stop                       NBL                    >50                 f

            12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     1.4                A

            12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBL                    21.8                c
  1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
  2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

  Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020

E.        Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
95th percentile queue lengths of approximately 600 feet and 1,000 feet are anticipated on the
eastbound and northbound approaches of the 300 East / 12300 South intersection during the
morning peak hour.




                                                                                                                                                    6
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School TIS                                                                                                                       Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                                                                                                                  Figure 3




                                                                                                                                                                                          700 East
                                   300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                     23




                                                                                                                                                                      466
                   266




                                                                                                                                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                       37
                    34




                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
     12200 South
                                                                                                                             u   th                 12200 South       15
                                                                                                                          So




                                                                                                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                                                                                                          680
                                                                                                                                                                                          19
         16                                                                                             1            30                                                5
                                                                                                         3     1   22
                                                                                                                                                                      20
                  393




        140


                                                                                  46
                                                     19                                                   9
                   13




                                                                                   8
                                   291
                                   202




                                                                                    0
                    0




                                                     0
                                                     31




                                                                                                                                                                           700 East
 Retail Access     0                                                    12230 South     0
                   0                                                                    0


                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                  13
                                      0
                                    474
                                     49




                                                                                                   6
                   0                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     100




                                                                                                                                                                     200
                                                                                                                                                                     140
                                                                                                                                                                     150
                                                                                                                                                                                                     909
                                              88
                 165
                 173
                 136




                                                                                                        11                                                                                           50
                                                                                 74




                                              1275
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  2



                                                                                                        1464
                                              180                                                       34                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                      350




                                                                                                                                                                                              200
                                                                                                                                                                                              275
                                                                                                                                                                                               50
                                                                                                                                             outh                     800
                  199                                     12300 South              40                                                 12300 S
                 1170                                                            1482                                                                                 100
                                       249
                                       386
                                       474




                                                                                               5
                                                                                               0
                                                                                              16




                  114                                                              33
                                                                                             450 East
                        300 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                       801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                              05/05/2020
                                                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



F.        Mitigation Measures

The current traffic volumes at the 300 East / 12300 South intersection warrant dual left-turn lanes
on the northbound approach, based on UDOT left-turn guidelines. It is recommended that these
northbound dual left-turn lanes be installed when possible to reduce delays and queueing.

The poor LOS at the 450 East / 12300 South is due to high volumes on 12300 South that leave
few gaps for vehicles to turn left from 450 East. However, this delay represents less than 10
vehicles turning left onto 12300 South. Vehicles will learn to re-route to traffic signals to avoid
delays as needed. The 450 East / 12300 South intersection was analyzed in 2017 for a signal
warrant by UDOT. It was found that a signal is warranted. However, the signal was put on hold
and has currently not been installed. Hales Engineering recommends that this signal be
constructed as soon as possible to provide an adequate level of service at this location.

G.        Mitigated Scenario

Hales Engineering completed a mitigated scenario assuming northbound dual left-turn lanes at
the 300 East / 12300 South intersection, as warranted. It was also assumed that the 450 East /
12300 South signal has been built as a mitigation. As shown in Table 3, it is anticipated that all
study intersections will operate at acceptable levels of service during the morning peak hour with
the proposed mitigations except for the 450 East / 12300 South intersection as previously
discussed. These results serve as a baseline condition for the impact analysis of the proposed
development during existing (2020) conditions.

         Table 3: Mitigated Existing (2020) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                    Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                    Aver. Delay
                    Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                     (Sec/Veh)
            12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.2                A

            Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     17.1                c

            300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    44.5                D

            450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                     9.7                A

            12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     1.4                A

            12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     27.6                d
  1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
  2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

  Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020




                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                          Traffic Impact Study



                               III. PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The project conditions discussion explains the type and intensity of development. This provides
the basis for trip generation, distribution, and assignment of project trips to the surrounding study
intersections defined in Chapter I.

B.     Project Description

This study addresses the traffic impacts associated with the proposed Beehive Academy Charter
School development located in Draper, Utah. The school will be for grades K-12 and will be
located at approximately 325 East 12200 South. A concept plan for the proposed development is
provided in Appendix C.

The proposed land use for the development has been identified as follows:
       • Charter School (K-12)                                  1,000 Students

C.     Trip Generation

Hales Engineering has collected peak hour trip generation data at several charter schools along
the Wasatch Front. Hales Engineering has observed peak hour trip generation rates ranging from
0.3 trips per student to 0.83 AM trips per student, 0.32 to 0.72 PM trips per student, with an
average of 0.65 AM trips and 0.57 PM trips per student.

With the proposed project being a K-12 school, Hales Engineering referred to local K-12 charter
school data for the analysis. The nearby American Preparatory Academy (APA) charter school in
Draper was observed to have a rate of 0.80 trips per student during the morning peak hour and
0.60 trips per student during the afternoon peak hour. These rates are similar to the rates for ITE’s
“Private School (K-12)” land use. Trip generation for the proposed project is included in Table 4.

The total trip generation for the development is as follows:
       • Morning Peak Hour:                                          800 trips
       • Afternoon Peak Hour:                                        600 trips




                                                                                                   9
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



                                   Table 4: Trip Generation




D.     Trip Distribution and Assignment

Project traffic is assigned to the roadway network based on the type of trip and the proximity of
project access points to major streets, high population densities, and regional trip attractions.
Existing travel patterns observed during data collection also provide helpful guidance to
establishing these distribution percentages, especially near the site. The resulting distribution of
project generated trips during the morning peak hour is as follows:

To/From Project:
      • 20% North
      • 5% South
      • 50% West
      • 25% East

These trip distribution assumptions were used to assign the morning peak hour generated traffic
at the study intersections to create trip assignment for the proposed development. Based on
discussions with the development team, incoming trips will be routed through the 450 East
intersections to create a one-way circulation for inbound traffic, with outbound traffic using the
300 East intersections. Trips were assigned to enter the development site through a westbound
right-turn movement into the Access 1 / 12200 South intersection. Trip assignment for the
development is shown in Figure 4.




                                                                                                 10
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School                                                                                                                                                                    Morning Peak Hour
Trip Assignment                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 4




                                       300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      700 East
                                                  0
                               10




                                                                                Access 2 (egress)
                                                  0
                                                            Access 3
                                       6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                    Access 1 (ingress)
                      10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                      6
                      0
                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                        1382




                                                      32
                                                                         18




        12200 South                                   144                                                                                                                                    12200 South
                                                                                                                                                                         uth                                    58
                                                                                                                                                                       So




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                   81                                                                                              230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
             0                                                                                                                                            0     12                                               0
            48                                                                                                                                             86
                                                                            0
                      144




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                       23
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                                                       0
             0
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                            0                                                     480
                                                                                                                                        0
                        0
                        0




                                                            0                                                     0
                                                            0             219
  Retail Access        0                                                                                                 12230 South
                                                                                                                                         81
                       0                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   313
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                        0
                                        23
                                        0




                       0
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                          58
                                                                                                                                          80


                                                  0
                      128




                                                                                                                                       80




                                                                                                                                                          120
                       16




                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                  0
                        0




                                                  0                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                       20                                                12300 South                                                   193                                     12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                      outh                       80
  12300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                      172                                                                                                                0
                                               0
                                               3
                                              21




                        0                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                            300 East




                                                                                                                                               450 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                                                       08/11/2020
                                                             Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                       Traffic Impact Study



E.     Access

The proposed access for the site will be gained at the following locations (see also concept plan
in Appendix C):

Proposed New Road (12200 / 12230 South):
      • A new road has been proposed to connect 12230 South to 12200 South and extend
         to connect with the 300 East roundabout. The two primary accesses to the school are
         planned to connect to this new roadway.
      • Access 1 will be located 600 feet east of the 12200 South / 300 East roundabout, on
         the southeast corner of the property. It is anticipated that this access will be ingress
         only to facilitate traffic flow during drop-off and pick-up times at the school. Based on
         discussions with the development team, parents will be advised to enter this access
         using the westbound right-turn movement and connecting from 12300 South via 450
         East. It is anticipated that the access will be stop-controlled.
      • Access 2 will be located approximately 400 feet east of the 12200 South / 300 East
         roundabout. It is anticipated that this access will be egress only and stop-controlled at
         the access.

300 East:
      • Access 3 will be located approximately 350 feet north of the 12200 South / 300 East
          roundabout, on the northwest corner of the property. It is anticipated to be a limited
          access, primarily serving for school egress during the afternoon pick-up period. It is
          anticipated that this access will be closed during the morning drop-off time.




                                                                                               12
                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                          Traffic Impact Study



              IV. EXISTING (2020) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the existing (2020) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for existing background traffic and geometric conditions
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on background traffic conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering added the project trips discussed in Chapter III to the existing (2020)
background traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for existing (2020) plus project
conditions. Existing (2020) plus project morning peak hour turning movement volumes are shown
in Figure 5.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the signalized 300 East / 12300 South will operate at a LOS
E with project traffic added. Additionally, the Retail Access / 300 East is anticipated to operate at
LOS F during the morning peak hour and the 12200 South / 700 East intersection is anticipated
to operate at LOS E. All other intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable levels of
service during the morning peak hour with project traffic added, as shown in Table 5.

D.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Significant queuing of up to 950 feet is anticipated on the eastbound approach of the 300 East /
12300 South intersection due to insufficient left-turn turning lane length. This queuing is likely to
interfere with operations at the neighboring 210 East / 12300 South signal. No other significant
queuing is anticipated during the morning peak hour.

E.     Mitigation Measures

Hales Engineering recommends that the eastbound left-turn lane storage be extended at the 300
East / 12300 South intersection. It is also recommended that southbound right-turn storage be
increased to better accommodate heavy volumes on that movement.

It was determined that left-turn traffic from the Retail Access / 300 East intersection will likely
reroute to avoid delays during the morning peak hour. This may entail making a right-turn
movement onto 12300 South at a different access or making a right-turn onto 300 East and a U-
turn movement at the 12200 South roundabout.



                                                                                                  13
                                                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study


Hales Engineering recommends that an eastbound right-turn lane be added at the 12200 South /
700 East intersection to allow for less delay and to mitigate the anticipated poor level of service.
The Draper City Transportation Master Plan (November 2019) includes plans to widen 700 East
to a 5-lane cross-section by the year 2025. It is anticipated that this improvement will also
decrease delay on the side street in future years.

                  Table 5: Existing (2020) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                    Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                    Aver. Delay
                    Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                     (Sec/Veh)
            12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     6.0                A

            Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f

            300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    63.0                E

            450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    20.4                C

            12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.2                A

            12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBL                    41.7                e

        Access 1 / New Project Road                              Ingress Only                     WBR                      3.5                a

        Access 2 / New Project Road                                  SB Stop                      SWL                     13.5                b

               Access 3 / 300 East                                  WB Stop                        NBT                     0.7                a
  1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
  2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

  Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020




                                                                                                                                                    14
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School                                                                                                                                                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 5




                                          300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              700 East
                                  310




                                                     0



                                                                                    Access 2 (egress)
                                                     0
                                                               Access 3
                                          313




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       466
                         266




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                        Access 1 (ingress)
                         34
                         10




                                                         6                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                           1382




                                                         47
                                                                            18




          12200 South                                    144                                                                                                                                       12200 South
                                                                                                                                                                               uth                                     73
                                                                                                                                                                             So




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              680
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
                                                                      82                                                                                                 230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
              16                                                                                                                                               1      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20
              49                                                                                                                                                89
                                                                               15
                         537




                                                                                                                                            46                   9
                                          291
                                          23
                                          202




                                                                                                                                             8
             140
                          13




                                                               19                                                     480
                                                                                                                                              0
                           0




                                                               0                                                      15
                                                               31            220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         700 East
    Retail Access         0                                                                                                  12230 South
                                                                                                                                              81
                          0                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                        325
                                                                                                                                                         13
                                           49
                                           497
                                           0




                          0                                                                                                                    58         6
                                                                                                                                               81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       200
                                                     88
                        293
                        189
                        136




                                                                                                                                           74
                                                                                                                                           82




                                                                                                                                                               131
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                     1275
                                                     180                                                                                                       1464
                                                                                                                                                               34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        350
                         219                                                12300 South                                                     233                                      12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                            outh                        880
    12300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                         100
                        1342                                                                                                               1482
                                                 474
                                                 389
                                                 270




                         114                                                                                                                 33
                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                    16
                               300 East




                                                                                                                                                    450 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                                      801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                                                             08/11/2020
                                                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



F.        Mitigated Scenario

Hales Engineering completed an analysis on existing (2020) plus project conditions under a
mitigated scenario. The 12200 South / 700 East intersection continued to operate at LOS E with
the addition of an eastbound right-turn pocket. It is anticipated that this will improve with the
widening of 700 East by the year 2025. In the meantime, traffic will reroute to avoid delays. As
shown in Table 6, it is anticipated that all other study intersections will operate at acceptable levels
of service during the morning peak hour with the proposed mitigations.

         Table 6: Mitigated Existing (2020) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                    Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                    Aver. Delay
                    Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                     (Sec/Veh)
            12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     6.6                A

            Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f

            300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    53.0                D

            450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    17.2                B

            12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.4                A

            12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBL                    36.9                e

        Access 1 / New Project Road                              Ingress Only                     WBR                      3.7                a

        Access 2 / New Project Road                                  SB Stop                      SWL                     16.0                c

               Access 3 / 300 East                                  WB Stop                        SBT                     1.5                a
  1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
  2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

  Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020




                                                                                                                                                    16
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



                V. FUTURE (2025) BACKGROUND CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2025) background analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions.
Through this analysis, future background traffic operational deficiencies can be identified, and
potential mitigation measures recommended.

B.     Roadway Network

The Draper City Transportation Master Plan (November 2019) indicates plans to widen 700 East
to a 5-lane cross-section by the year 2025. It was assumed that this widening project had taken
place for future (2025) background conditions. According to the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) Regional Transportation Plan, there are no additional projects planned before 2025 in
the study area. Therefore, no additional changes were made to the roadway network aside from
the planned 700 East widening for the future (2025) analysis.

C.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering estimated future (2025) forecasted volumes using existing local ADT growth
rate information published by UDOT. A growth rate of approximately 1% per year was applied to
the current traffic volumes in the study area. Future (2025) morning peak hour turning movement
volumes are shown in Figure 6.

D.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that the 300 East / 12300 South intersection is anticipated to
operate at LOS E during the morning peak hour in future (2025) background traffic conditions. All
other study intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable levels of service during the
morning peak hour in future (2025) background conditions, as shown in Table 7.

E.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Excessive queuing of up to approximately 775 feet was observed on the eastbound approach of
the 300 East / 12300 South intersection. No other significant queuing is anticipated during the
morning peak hour.




                                                                                                17
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School TIS                                                                                                                       Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                                                                                                    Figure 6




                                                                                                                                                                                       700 East
                                    300 East


                                                                                                                                                                                                  24




                                                                                                                                                                      494
                    282




                                                                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                                                       39
                     36




                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
      12200 South
                                                                                                                             u   th                 12200 South        16
                                                                                                                          So




                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                                                                       721
                                                                                                                                                                                       20
          17                                                                                             1            230                                               5
                                                                                                          3     1   2
                                                                                                                                                                       21
                   417




         148                                                                                               10




                                                                                   49
                                                      20
                    14




                                                                                    8
                                    308
                                    214




                                                                                     0
                     0




                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                            700 East
                                                      33
  Retail Access     0                                                    12230 South     0
                    0                                                                    0




                                                                                                   13
                                     52




                                                                                                   14
                                     502
                                     0




                                                                                                    6
                    0                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                      148
                                                                                                                                                                      212
                                                                                                                                                                      159
                                               93
                  175
                  183
                  144




                                                                                                         12
                                                                                   78
                                               1352
                                                                                    0
                                                                                    2                    1552
                                               191                                                       36
                                                                                                                                                                       371
                                                           12300 South              42                                                       outh                      848
  12300 South      211                                                                                                                12300 S
                                                                                  1571                                                                                 106
                                           502
                                           409
                                           264




                  1240
                                                                                                5

                                                                                    35
                                                                                                0
                                                                                               17
                   121
                         300 East




                                                                                              450 East
                  389
                   53
                   53




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                       801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                              05/11/2020
                                                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



                   Table 7: Future (2025) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                   Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                   Aver. Delay
                   Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                    (Sec/Veh)
           12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.5                A

           Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     47.3                e

           300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    66.5                E

           450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    29.7                C

           12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     1.5                A

           12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBL                    14.2                b
 1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
 2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

 Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020

F.       Mitigation Measures

The Draper City Transportation Master Plan (November 2019) indicates a phase 2 (2025-2034)
plan to widen 12300 South to a 7-lane cross-section from I-15 to 700 East. Hales Engineering
recommends that UDOT proceeds forward with this plan as background conditions show that this
is needed by the year 2025. No other mitigation measures are recommended for future (2025)
background conditions.

G.       Mitigated Scenario

Hales Engineering performed an analysis on a mitigated future (2025) background morning peak
hour conditions with 12300 south widened to a 7-lane cross-section in the project area. LOS
results for this mitigated scenario are shown in Table 8. These results serve as a baseline
condition for the impact analysis of the proposed development for future (2025) conditions.




                                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                                             Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                       Traffic Impact Study



        Table 8: Mitigated Future (2025) Background Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                  Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                  Aver. Delay
                  Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                   (Sec/Veh)
          12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.3                A

          Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     19.9                c

          300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    44.2                D

          450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                     9.2                A

          12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     1.4                A

          12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     21.5                c
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020




                                                                                                                                                  20
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



               VI. FUTURE (2025) PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2025) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions
plus the net trips generated by the proposed development. This scenario provides valuable insight
into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering added the project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2025) background
traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for future (2025) plus project conditions.
Future (2025) plus project morning peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure 7.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that all study intersections are anticipated to operate at acceptable
levels of service during the morning peak hour in future (2025) plus project conditions, as shown
in Table 9.

D.     Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
No significant queuing is anticipated during the morning peak hour.

E.     Mitigation Measures

No mitigation measures are recommended.




                                                                                                21
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School                                                                                                                                                                          Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Plus Project                                                                                                                                                                                                 Figure 7




                                           300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          700 East
                                   328




                                                      0




                                                                                     Access 2 (egress)
                                                      0
                                                                Access 3
                                           331
                          282




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24
                          36
                          10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        494
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                         Access 1 (ingress)
                                                          6                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                            1382


                                                          48
                                                                             18




           12200 South                                    144
                                                                                                                                                                               uth                 12200 South          74




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           721
                                                                                                                                                                             So




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
               17                                                      82                                                                                      1         230                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                89                                                      21

                                                                                                                                            49
               49
                                                                                16




                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                 10
                          561




                                                                                                                                              0
                                           308
                                           23
                                           214




              148
                           14




                                                                20                                                     480
                            0




                                                                0                                                      16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               700 East
                                                                33
     Retail Access         0                                                2200                                              12230 South    81
                           0                                                                                                                  0
                                            52
                                            525
                                            0




                           0                                                                                                                 58       326
                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                             81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        159
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        212
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        148
                                                      93
                         303
                         199
                         144




                                                                                                                                            78
                                                                                                                                            82




                                                                                                                                                              132
                                                                                                                                             0




                                                      1352                                                                                                    1552
                                                      191                                                                                                     36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         371
                          231                                                                                                                                                        12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                            outh                         928
     12300 South                                                             12300 South                                                     235                                                                         106
                         1412
                                                  502
                                                  412
                                                  285




                                                                                                                                            1571
                          121                                                                                                                 35
                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                   17
                                300 East




                                                                                                                                                   450 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                                      801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                                                             08/11/2020
                                                                                             Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                       Traffic Impact Study



                  Table 9: Future (2025) Plus Project Morning Peak Hour LOS
                                  Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                  Aver. Delay
                  Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                   (Sec/Veh)
          12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     4.8                A

          Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     26.6                d

          300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    45.1                D

          450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    12.9                B

          12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     3.3                A

          12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBT                    25.1                d

      Access 1 / New Project Road                              Ingress Only                     WBR                      4.1                a

      Access 2 / New Project Road                                  SB Stop                      SWL                     17.5                c

             Access 3 / 300 East                                  WB Stop                        NBT                     0.7                a
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020




                                                                                                                                                  23
                                                              Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                        Traffic Impact Study



             VII. AFTERNOON PEAK HOUR CONDITIONS (2025)

A.     Purpose

The purpose of the future (2025) plus project analysis is to study the intersections and roadways
during the peak travel periods of the day for future background traffic and geometric conditions
as well as the net trips generated by the proposed development. These scenarios provide
valuable insight into the potential impacts of the proposed project on future background traffic
conditions.

B.     Traffic Volumes

Hales Engineering estimated future (2025) forecasted volumes using existing local ADT growth
rate information published by UDOT. A growth rate of approximately 1% per year was applied to
the current traffic volumes in the study area. Future (2025) afternoon peak hour turning movement
volumes are shown in Figure 8.

An afternoon peak hour trip assignment was created utilizing the same trip distribution
assumptions and afternoon peak hour generated trips as previously discussed in Chapter III of
this report. The afternoon peak hour trip assignment is shown in Figure 9.

Hales Engineering added the project trips discussed in Chapter III to the future (2025) background
traffic volumes to predict turning movement volumes for future (2025) plus project conditions.
Future (2025) plus project afternoon peak hour turning movement volumes are shown in Figure
10.

C.     Level of Service Analysis

Hales Engineering determined that all study intersections, excluding the previously mentioned
retail access, are anticipated to operate at acceptable levels of service during the afternoon peak
hour in future (2025) background conditions, as shown in Table 10.

However, it was determined that the 300 East / 12300 South and the Access 3 / 300 East
intersections would fail during afternoon peak hour conditions in future (2025) conditions with
project traffic added, as shown in Table 11. The excessive queuing of more than 800 feet in the
southbound direction on 300 East negatively impacts traffic upstream at the 12200 South
roundabout and at the northwest project access (Access 3).




                                                                                                24
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School TIS                                                                                                                     Afternoon Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                                                                                                    Figure 8




                                                                                                                                                                                     700 East
                                 300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                54




                                                                                                                                                                    618
                  204




                                                                                                                                                                                                7




                                                                                                                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                                                     46
                   53




                                                                                                                                                                                                15
    12200 South
                                                                                                                           u   th                 12200 South        17
                                                                                                      10                So




                                                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                                                     496
                                                                                                                                                                                     35
        50                                                                                                         30                                                 8
                                                                                                       13    1   22
                                                                                                                                                                     40
                524




       348                                                                                              10
                                                                                23
                                                   39
                 28




                                                                                 4
                                 262
                                 254




                                                                                  1
                  0




                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                          700 East
                                                   71
Retail Access     0                                                   12230 South     1
                  2                                                                   0
                                                                                                 25
                                  46




                                                                                                22
                                  477
                                  0




                                                                                                15
                  0                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                    519
                                                                                                                                                                    106
                                                                                                                                                                     53
                                            130                                                       37
                134
                269
                239




                                                                                60
                                                                                 1
                                                                                 6




                                            1507                                                      1728
                                            172                                                       42
                                                                                                                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                           outh                     1314
12300 South 162                                         12300 South              71                                                 12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                      53
                                        376
                                        365
                                        137




            1102                                                               1362
             133
                                                                                           21




                                                                                 45
                                                                                            1
                                                                                           42
                      300 East




                                                                                           450 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                08/12/2020
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School                                                                                                                                                                 Afternoon Peak Hour
Trip Assignment (PM)                                                                                                                                                                                                Figure 9




                                       300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      700 East
                                                  4



                                                                                  Access 2 (egress)
                               5




                                                  176
                                                           Access 3
                                       3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                       144




                                                                                                                                                                                                                43
                                                                                                      Access 1 (ingress)                                                                                                         0
                       37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                      3
                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                       78 2




                                                      0
                                                                        10




         12200 South                                  99                                                                                                                                      12200 South
                                                                                                                                                                          uth                                   65
                                                                                                                                                                        So




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                  73                                                                                                230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
              0                                                                                                                                            0     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
             24                                                                                                                                             43
                                                                              0
                       243




                                                                                                                                                             0
                                       12
                                       0
                                       0




                                                                                                                                         0
              0                                            0                                                        240                  0
                                                                                                                                          0
                         0
                         0




                                                           0                                                        0
                                                           0             151
   Retail Access       0                                                                                                   12230 South
                                                                                                                                          41
                       0                                                                                                                    0       156
                                                                                                                                                      0
                                        0
                                        12
                                        0




                       0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                           65
                                                                                                                                           45


                                                  0
                       180




                                                                                                                                         45




                                                                                                                                                           60
                        18
                        45




                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                          0




                                                  0
                                                  0                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                       10                                               12300 South                                                      96                                     12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                       outh                      90
    12300 South                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                       86                                                                                                                45
                                               0
                                               2
                                              10




                        0                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                            300 East




                                                                                                                                                450 East




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                              801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                                                     08/12/2020
Draper - Beehive Academy Charter School                                                                                                                                                                          Afternoon Peak Hour
Future (2025) Plus Project                                                                                                                                                                                                  Figure 10




                                           300 East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          700 East
                                   262




                                                      4




                                                                                     Access 2 (egress)
                                                      176
                                                             Access 3
                                           315
                        348




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     54
                        53
                        37




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        618
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                        3                                                Access 1 (ingress)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15
                                                                         78 2



                                                        39
                                                                          10




         12200 South                                    99
                                                                                                                                                                               uth                 12200 South          82




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           496
                                                                                                                                                                             So




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35
             50                                                     74                                                                                         10        230                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                56                                                      40
                                                                                                                                            23
             25
                                                                                39




                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                 10
                        767




                                                                                                                                              1
                                           262
                                           12
                                           254




            348
                         28




                                                             39                                                        240
                          0




                                                             0                                                         39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               700 East
                                                             71
   Retail Access         0                                               1520                                                 12230 South    41
                         2                                                                                                                    1
                                            46
                                            489
                                            0




                         0                                                                                                                   65
                                                                                                                                                      181
                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                             45       15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        106
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        519
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        53
                                                      130
                       314
                       287
                       284




                                                                                                                                            60
                                                                                                                                            51




                                                                                                                                                              97
                                                                                                                                             1




                                                      1507                                                                                                    1728
                                                      172                                                                                                     42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53
                        172                                                                                                                                                          12300 S
                                                                                                                                                                                            outh                        1404
   12300 South                                                            12300 South                                                        167                                                                          53
                       1188
                                                  376
                                                  367
                                                  147




                                                                                                                                            1407
                        133                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                   42
                                300 East




                                                                                                                                                   450 East
                          442




Hales Engineering                                                                                                                                                                                                       801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West Ste 202, Lehi, UT, 84043                                                                                                                                                                              08/12/2020
                                                                                             Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                       Traffic Impact Study



               Table 10: Future (2025) Background Afternoon Peak Hour LOS
                                  Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                  Aver. Delay
                  Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                   (Sec/Veh)
          12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                    14.2                B

          Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f

          300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    46.5                D

          450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    10.0                A

          12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     1.4                A

          12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                       WBT                     23.9                c
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020

               Table 11: Future (2025) Plus Project Afternoon Peak Hour LOS
                                  Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                  Aver. Delay
                  Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                   (Sec/Veh)
          12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                    27.1                D

          Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f

          300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    61.2                E

          450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    11.8                B

          12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     2.2                A

          12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBT                    34.3                d

      Access 1 / New Project Road                              Ingress Only                     WBR                      1.3                a

      Access 2 / New Project Road                                  SB Stop                      SWL                      6.4                a

             Access 3 / 300 East                                  WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f
1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020
                                                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                                                                         Traffic Impact Study



D.        Queuing Analysis

Hales Engineering calculated the 95th percentile queue lengths for each of the study intersections.
Queuing of more than 800 feet was observed on the southbound approach at the 300 East /
12300 South intersection, backing past the retail access and the 12200 South roundabout. This
excessive queuing is anticipated to negatively affect the project access onto 300 East, causing a
failing level of service at that access.

E.        Mitigation Measures

Hales Engineering recommends that southbound dual left-turn lanes be installed at the 300 East
/ 12300 South intersection. It is anticipated that these left-turn lanes will be warranted (UDOT)
with project traffic added during the afternoon peak hour in future (2025) conditions. No other
mitigation measures are recommended for this scenario.

F.        Mitigated Scenario

Hales Engineering performed an analysis on afternoon peak hour volumes in future (2025) plus
project conditions with the mentioned mitigation measures applied to the roadway network. The
LOS results of this analysis are shown in Table 12.

        Table 12: Mitigated Future (2025) Plus Project Afternoon Peak Hour LOS
                                    Intersection                                                            Level of Service
                                                                                                                    Aver. Delay
                    Description                                      Control                 Movement1                                       LOS2
                                                                                                                     (Sec/Veh)
            12200 South / 300 East                                Roundabout                         -                     9.1                A

            Retail Access / 300 East                             EB/WB Stop                       WBL                     >50                 f

            300 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    44.6                D

            450 East / 12300 South                                    Signal                         -                    11.7                B

            12230 South / 450 East                                Roundabout                         -                     2.3                A

            12200 South / 700 East                               EB/WB Stop                        EBL                    32.1                d

        Access 1 / New Project Road                              Ingress Only                     WBR                      1.3                a

        Access 2 / New Project Road                                  SB Stop                      SWL                      6.8                a

               Access 3 / 300 East                                  WB Stop                       WBL                     33.5                d
  1. Movement indicated for unsignalized intersections where delay and LOS represents worst movement. SBL = Southbound left movement, etc.
  2. Uppercase LOS used for signalized, roundabout, and AWSC intersections. Lowercase LOS used for non-AWSC intersections.

  Source: Hales Engineering, August 2020
                                                               Beehive Academy Charter School
                                                                                           Traffic Impact Study



G.     On-site Circulation and Queuing Analysis

The on-site circulation and queuing analysis were completed in VISSIM to closely represent the
on-site out-loading conditions. It was assumed that the student pick-up areas at the school were
approximately 325 feet on the east pick-up area and 300 feet on the north pick-up area for a total
of 625 feet of pick-up area on the school property. It is anticipated that the north pick-up area will
be for high-school age students while the east pick-up area will be for lower grade levels. Multiple
runs were used to provide a statistical evaluation of the site circulation operations. The 95th
percentile maximum queue length was found to be approximately 2,250 linear feet during the
afternoon peak hour. This assumed an enrollment of 1,000 students and that all students are
dismissed at the same time. It is recommended that the school site be designed to accommodate
this queue length onsite, or measures be taken to reduce the required queue length. Such
measures include shuttles, a carpool program, or staggered dismissal times.

Based on this analysis, Hales Engineering recommends that a total queue storage length of at
least 2,250 feet (not including the actual pick-up area) be implemented into the property to ensure
proper circulation and avoid backing into the roadways adjacent to the property. Existing plans
indicate five stacking lanes, each approximately 500 feet long with an additional 100 feet of length
between the pick-up areas. This allows for approximately 2,600 feet of queuing length outside of
the pick-up zones and is deemed satisfactory for the existing charter school site. It is also
recommended that traffic between the north pick-up zones and east pick-up zones be balanced
as equally as possible to avoid any potential complications from traffic in one pick-up area being
heavier than the other.

H.     Recommended Storage Lengths

Hales Engineering determined recommended storage lengths based on the 95th percentile queue
lengths given in the future (2025) plus project scenario. These storage lengths do not include the
taper length. Recommended storage lengths for the study intersections are shown in Table 13.
Intersections shown in Table 13 include new intersections and existing intersections that have
recommended storage length changes.

                        Table 13: Recommended Storage Lengths
        Beehive Academy Charter School
                        Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX A
Turning Movement Counts
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                             801.636.0891


                                                                                             Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 300 East / 12200 South                                                                                                     Date:                                         9-11-19, Wed
        North/South: 300 East                                                                                                            Day of Week Adjustment:                       100.0%
           East/West: 12200 South                                                                                                        Month of Year Adjustment:                     100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                    Adjustment Station #:                               0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                         Growth Rate:                                    0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                  Number of Years:                                    0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.66                                                                          536
                                                                                                                                   478
                           SCHOOL PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      SCHOOL PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 2:30 PM-2:45 PM
                                        SCHOOL PHF: 0.84
                                                                                                                      242                 294




                                                                                                                                                 300 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                 285                 193
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                              50      192          0
                                                                                                              33      252          0
                                                                                         4                                                                   0       0
                                                                                         5
                                                             12200 South

                                                                                                                Total Entering Vehicles                      0       0
                                                   290   229                                                                810                              0       0                           0      0
        665     381                                                             47      16                                  1104                             0       0                                                       0   0
                                                   375   152                    0        0                                                                                                       0      0
                                                                               328      136


                                                                                                                                                                         12200 South
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                4        0                            196          177     0                 0
                                                                                                                      240          247     0                                                          Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                       AM
                                                                                                              388                  373                                                                School
                                                                                                              520                  487                                                                 PM
                                                                                               300 East




                                                                                                                      761
                                                                                                                     1007




                                                300 East                         300 East                            12200 South                            12200 South
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                       Southbound                            Eastbound                              Westbound                 TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right    Peds   Left    Thru    Right        Peds      Left   Thru   Right         Peds   Left       Thru   Right    Peds

                      AM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A      B            C       D         E    F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        7:00 - 7:15  10    52            0       0         0   30       1                 0    4       0           14      0      0          0      0        0          111
                        7:15 - 7:30  29    58            0       0         0   41       4                 0    3       0           19      0      0          0      0        0          154
                        7:30 - 7:45  42    102           0       0         0   58       11                1    3       0           21      0      0          0      0        0          237
                        7:45 - 8:00  59    68            0       0         0   121      13                1    6       0           38      0      0          0      0        0          305
                        8:00 - 8:15  41    49            0       0         0   65       9                 1    3       0           40      0      0          0      0        0          207
                        8:15 - 8:30  43    35            0       0         0   32       1                 0    4       0           24      0      0          0      0        0          139
                        8:30 - 8:45  53    25            0       0         0   34       10                3    3       0           34      0      0          0      0        0          159
                        8:45 - 9:00  58    32            0       0         0   34       4                 0    3       0           37      0      0          0      0        0          168
                      MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A      B            C       D         E    F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        9:00 - 9:15  0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:15 - 9:30  0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:30 - 9:45  0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:45 - 10:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:00 - 10:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:15 - 10:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:30 - 10:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:45 - 11:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:00 - 11:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:15 - 11:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:30 - 11:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:45 - 12:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:00 - 12:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:15 - 12:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:30 - 12:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:45 - 13:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:00 - 13:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:15 - 13:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:30 - 13:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:45 - 14:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       14:00 - 14:15 44    56            0       0         0   29       7                 0   4        0           82      0      0          0      0        0          222
                       14:15 - 14:30 42    68            0       0         0   54       6                 0   10       0           56      0      0          0      0        0          236
                       14:30 - 14:45 61    53            0       2         0   101      20                0   7        1           85      0      0          0      0        0          328
                       14:45 - 15:00 50    54            0       0         0   97       14                0   7        0           76      2      0          0      0        0          298
                       15:00 - 15:15 53    59            0       0         0   58       10                0   13       0           91      2      0          0      0        0          284
                       15:15 - 15:30 46    56            0       0         0   50       14                1   13       0           80      0      0          0      0        0          259
                       15:30 - 15:45 69    59            0       0         0   40       13                1   7        0           88      0      0          0      0        0          276
                       15:45 - 16:00 72    73            0       0         0   44       13                2   14       0           69      2      0          0      0        0          285
                      PM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A      B            C       D         E    F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       16:00 - 16:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:15 - 16:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:30 - 16:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:45 - 17:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:00 - 17:15 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:15 - 17:30 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:30 - 17:45 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:45 - 18:00 0      0            0       0         0    0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                         801.636.0891


                                                                                             Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 300 East / McDonalds Chick Fil A Access                                                                                  Date:                                      9-11-19, Wed
        North/South: 300 East                                                                                                          Day of Week Adjustment:                    100.0%
           East/West: McDonalds Chick Fil A Access                                                                                     Month of Year Adjustment:                  100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                  Adjustment Station #:                            0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                       Growth Rate:                                 0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                Number of Years:                                 0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.85                                                                         63
                                                                                                                                  31
                           SCHOOL PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      SCHOOL PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 2:45 PM-3:00 PM
                                        SCHOOL PHF: 0.88
                                                                                                                       26                37




                                                                                                                                               300 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                  13                18
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                                0      0          26
                                                                                                                0      0          13
                                                                                         0                                                                0         0
                                                                                         0
                                                     McDonalds Chick Fil A Access

                                                                                                                Total Entering Vehicles                   18       37
                                                 0         0                                                                109                           0         0                        48    104
         2       0                                                                  0    0                                  175                           30       67                                                    109   175
                                                 2         0                        2    0                                                                                                   61     71
                                                                                    0    0


                                                                                                                                                              McDonalds Chick Fil A Access
                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                    0    0                             0          0      48               0
                                                                                                                       0          0      43                                                       Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                   AM
                                                                                                               30                 48                                                              School
                                                                                                               67                 43                                                               PM
                                                                                               300 East




                                                                                                                       78
                                                                                                                      110




                                                300 East                         300 East                     McDonalds Chick Fil A Access McDonalds Chick Fil A Access
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                       Southbound                            Eastbound                    Westbound                      TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right     Peds   Left   Thru    Right        Peds       Left  Thru   Right    Peds   Left  Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A            B        C       D      E          F   G                 H     I      J          K      L      M         N        O       P      TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  0            0        7       0      1          1   0                 0     0      1          0      0      5         0        1       0        16
                       7:15 - 7:30  0            0        8       0      2          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      3         0        3       0        16
                       7:30 - 7:45  0            0        11      0      3          0   0                 0     0      2          0      0      5         0        8       0        29
                       7:45 - 8:00  0            0        13      0      6          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      6         0        7       0        32
                       8:00 - 8:15  0            0        8       0      5          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      6         0        3       0        22
                       8:15 - 8:30  0            0        13      0      1          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      8         0        2       0        24
                       8:30 - 8:45  0            0        14      0      1          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      10        0        6       0        31
                       8:45 - 9:00  0            0        7       0      5          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      4         0        6       0        22
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A            B        C       D      E          F   G                 H     I      J          K      L      M         N        O       P      TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15  0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                       9:15 - 9:30  0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                       9:30 - 9:45  0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                       9:45 - 10:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      10:00 - 10:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      10:15 - 10:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      10:30 - 10:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      10:45 - 11:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      11:00 - 11:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      11:15 - 11:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      11:30 - 11:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      11:45 - 12:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      12:00 - 12:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      12:15 - 12:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      12:30 - 12:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      12:45 - 13:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      13:00 - 13:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      13:15 - 13:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      13:30 - 13:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      13:45 - 14:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      14:00 - 14:15 0            0        16      0      8          0   1                 0     0      1          0      0      10        0        5       0        41
                      14:15 - 14:30 0            0        11      0      4          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      11        1        6       0        33
                      14:30 - 14:45 0            0        15      0      8          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      11        0        8       0        42
                      14:45 - 15:00 0            0        4       2      11         0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      17        1        17      1        50
                      15:00 - 15:15 0            0        17      0      7          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      13        0        9       0        46
                      15:15 - 15:30 0            0        8       0      6          0   0                 0     0      1          0      0      11        0        8       0        34
                      15:30 - 15:45 0            0        9       0      9          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      20        0        9       0        47
                      15:45 - 16:00 0            0        9       0      4          0   0                 0     0      1          0      0      23        0        11      0        48
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A            B        C       D      E          F   G                 H     I      J          K      L      M         N        O       P      TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      16:15 - 16:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      16:30 - 16:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      16:45 - 17:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      17:00 - 17:15 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      17:15 - 17:30 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      17:30 - 17:45 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                      17:45 - 18:00 0            0        0       0      0          0   0                 0     0      0          0      0      0         0        0       0        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801.636.0891


                                                                                                Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 300 East / 12300 South                                                                                                        Date:                                         9-11-19, Wed
        North/South: 300 East                                                                                                               Day of Week Adjustment:                       100.0%
           East/West: 12300 South                                                                                                           Month of Year Adjustment:                     100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                       Adjustment Station #:                               0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                            Growth Rate:                                    0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                     Number of Years:                                    0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.91                                                                         1225
                                                                                                                                  1110
                           MIDDAY PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      MIDDAY PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 3:45 PM-4:00 PM
                                        MIDDAY PHF: 0.88
                                                                                                                         605                 620




                                                                                                                                                    300 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                    457                 653
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                                 126     254          225
                                                                                                                 160     168          129
                                                                                            1                                                                   2       4
                                                                                            5
                                                               12300 South

                                                                                                                   Total Entering Vehicles                      85     123
                                                   1903   1858                                                                 4472                            1238   1422                         1498    1707
        3221   3298                                                               153      193                                 4458                             175    162                                                       3005   3101
                                                   1318   1440                    1040    1136                                                                                                     1507    1394
                                                                                  125      111


                                                                                                                                                                            12300 South
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                   1        0                            460          375    242                0
                                                                                                                         355          344    129                                                          Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                                 454              1077                                                                    Midday
                                                                                                                 541                  828                                                                   PM
                                                                                                  300 East




                                                                                                                        1531
                                                                                                                        1369




                                                300 East                            300 East                            12300 South                            12300 South
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                          Southbound                            Eastbound                              Westbound                 TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right      Peds   Left     Thru    Right        Peds      Left   Thru   Right         Peds   Left       Thru   Right    Peds

                      AM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period      A     B             C        D         E     F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        7:00 - 7:15  75    48             46       0         19    14      16                0   34      233          16      0      17        176     21       0          715
                        7:15 - 7:30  147   102            55       0         26    16      37                0   37      218          15      0      32        252     11       1          948
                        7:30 - 7:45  155   97             48       0         23    30      44                1   81      226          25      0      38        237     32       0          1036
                        7:45 - 8:00  94    114            52       0         39    56      65                1   53      285          40      0      44        364     24       0          1230
                        8:00 - 8:15  123   100            64       0         22    46      30                0   48      281          25      0      59        291     17       1          1106
                        8:15 - 8:30  106   82             76       0         34    23      29                1   41      267          30      0      25        274     20       1          1007
                        8:30 - 8:45  137   79             50       0         34    43      36                3   51      303          16      0      47        309     24       0          1129
                        8:45 - 9:00  120   90             61       0         40    30      36                1   49      328          31      0      25        330     14       0          1154
                      MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period      A     B             C        D         E     F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        9:00 - 9:15   0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:15 - 9:30   0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:30 - 9:45   0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:45 - 10:00  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:00 - 10:15  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:15 - 10:30  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:30 - 10:45  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:45 - 11:00  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:00 - 11:15  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:15 - 11:30  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:30 - 11:45  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:45 - 12:00  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:00 - 12:15  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:15 - 12:30  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:30 - 12:45  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:45 - 13:00  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:00 - 13:15  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:15 - 13:30  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:30 - 13:45  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:45 - 14:00  0     0             0        0         0     0       0                 0   0        0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       14:00 - 14:15 89    58             27       0         43    46      41                0   75      254          35      0      63        264     30       0          1025
                       14:15 - 14:30 74    53             31       0         45    52      54                0   49      204          39      0      40        248     32       0          921
                       14:30 - 14:45 76    63             41       0         66    78      69                0   72      254          29      0      48        298     47       0          1141
                       14:45 - 15:00 88    93             29       0         64    85      72                4   47      226          27      0      49        306     34       0          1120
                       15:00 - 15:15 89    89             33       0         71    85      27                0   49      266          32      0      63        343     27       0          1174
                       15:15 - 15:30 95    76             21       0         32    51      32                1   21      206          21      0      30        311     19       1          915
                       15:30 - 15:45 94    92             35       0         66    52      28                0   38      227          41      1      32        369     30       3          1104
                       15:45 - 16:00 77    87             40       0         56    66      39                0   45      341          31      0      37        399     47       0          1265
                      PM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period      A     B              C       D         E     F       G                 H    I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       16:00 - 16:15  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:15 - 16:30  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:30 - 16:45  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:45 - 17:00  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:00 - 17:15  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:15 - 17:30  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:30 - 17:45  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:45 - 18:00  0     0              0       0         0     0       0                 0    0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                           801.636.0891


                                                                                              Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 450 East / 12230 South                                                                                                   Date:                                         9-11-19, Wed
        North/South: 450 East                                                                                                          Day of Week Adjustment:                       100.0%
           East/West: 12230 South                                                                                                      Month of Year Adjustment:                     100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                  Adjustment Station #:                               0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                       Growth Rate:                                    0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                Number of Years:                                    0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 8:30 AM-8:45 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.81                                                                         58
                                                                                                                                  64
                           SCHOOL PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      SCHOOL PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 2:45 PM-3:00 PM
                                        SCHOOL PHF: 0.79
                                                                                                                       27                31




                                                                                                                                               450 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                  52                12
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                                1      22         4
                                                                                                                0      45         7
                                                                                          0                                                                1       3
                                                                                          0
                                                              12230 South

                                                                                                                 Total Entering Vehicles                   0       9
                                                   37    15                                                                 94                             3      12                           11     30
         38     16                                                               1        0                                 117                            8       9                                                       24   48
                                                   1     1                       0        0                                                                                                    13     18
                                                                                 0        1


                                                                                                                                                                       12230 South
                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                 0        0                            12         12     6                 8
                                                                                                                       24         21     14                                                         Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                     AM
                                                                                                               54                 30                                                                School
                                                                                                               31                 59                                                                 PM
                                                                                                450 East




                                                                                                                       84
                                                                                                                       90




                                                450 East                          450 East                            12230 South                         12230 South
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                        Southbound                            Eastbound                           Westbound                 TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right     Peds   Left    Thru    Right        Peds      Left   Thru   Right      Peds   Left       Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J         K      L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  0              2     3        0         1    5       0                 0    0       0         0      0      3          0      0        0           14
                       7:15 - 7:30  2              2     1        0         2    13      0                 0    0       0         0      0      4          0      0        0           24
                       7:30 - 7:45  4              1     1        0         2    16      0                 0    0       0         0      0      1          2      0        0           27
                       7:45 - 8:00  2              2     2        0         1    9       0                 0    0       0         1      0      3          1      0        0           21
                       8:00 - 8:15  2              4     3        0         1    11      0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          1      0        0           22
                       8:15 - 8:30  3              3     0        0         2    11      0                 0    0       0         0      0      3          0      0        0           22
                       8:30 - 8:45  5              3     1        0         3    14      0                 0    0       0         0      0      2          1      0        1           29
                       8:45 - 9:00  1              0     1        0         1    9       1                 0    0       0         1      0      4          0      1        0           19
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J         K      L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15  0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:15 - 9:30  0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:30 - 9:45  0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:45 - 10:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:00 - 10:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:15 - 10:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:30 - 10:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:45 - 11:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:00 - 11:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:15 - 11:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:30 - 11:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:45 - 12:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:00 - 12:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:15 - 12:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:30 - 12:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:45 - 13:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:00 - 13:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:15 - 13:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:30 - 13:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:45 - 14:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      14:00 - 14:15 8              2     3        0         1    3       0                 0    0       0         1      0      4          1      0        0           23
                      14:15 - 14:30 12             2     4        0         1    3       0                 0    0       1         0      0      0          0      2        0           25
                      14:30 - 14:45 9              6     10       0         0    4       1                 0    0       0         0      0      2          2      0        0           34
                      14:45 - 15:00 8              7     7        6         0    3       0                 2    0       0         1      0      3          8      0        1           37
                      15:00 - 15:15 7              5     5        1         1    3       1                 0    0       0         0      0      2          4      4        0           32
                      15:15 - 15:30 5              4     2        0         1    6       0                 0    0       0         0      0      1          4      2        0           25
                      15:30 - 15:45 9              7     4        2         2    7       0                 0    0       0         0      0      2          0      2        0           33
                      15:45 - 16:00 3              5     3        5         0    6       0                 0    1       0         0      0      4          4      1        3           27
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A              B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J         K      L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:15 - 16:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:30 - 16:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:45 - 17:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:00 - 17:15 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:15 - 17:30 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:30 - 17:45 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:45 - 18:00 0              0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0         0      0      0          0      0        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                             801.636.0891


                                                                                              Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 450 East / 12300 South                                                                                                     Date:                                         9-11-19, Wed
        North/South: 450 East                                                                                                            Day of Week Adjustment:                       100.0%
           East/West: 12300 South                                                                                                        Month of Year Adjustment:                     100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                    Adjustment Station #:                               0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                         Growth Rate:                                    0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                  Number of Years:                                    0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 8:30 AM-8:45 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.82                                                                          167
                                                                                                                                   124
                           SCHOOL PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      SCHOOL PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 3:30 PM-3:45 PM
                                        SCHOOL PHF: 0.84
                                                                                                                       64                 103




                                                                                                                                                 450 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                  74                  50
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                               57       1          6
                                                                                                               72       0          2
                                                                                          0                                                                  2       0
                                                                                          0
                                                              12300 South

                                                                                                                 Total Entering Vehicles                     11     35
                                                   77    77                                                                  210                             0       0                           44     75
        186     148                                                              67      39                                  309                             33     40                                                       62   121
                                                   109   71                      0        0                                                                                                      18     46
                                                                                 42      32


                                                                                                                                                                         12300 South
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                 0        0                             5          0       16                0
                                                                                                                       20          1       40                                                         Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                       AM
                                                                                                               65                  21                                                                 School
                                                                                                               83                  61                                                                  PM
                                                                                                450 East




                                                                                                                       86
                                                                                                                       144




                                                450 East                          450 East                            12300 South                           12300 South
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                        Southbound                            Eastbound                             Westbound                 TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right     Peds   Left    Thru    Right        Peds      Left   Thru   Right        Peds   Left       Thru   Right    Peds

                      AM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A             B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J          K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        7:00 - 7:15  2             0     0        0         1    1       7                 0   6        0          1       0      2          0      0        0           20
                        7:15 - 7:30  4             0     1        0         1    0       17                0   6        0          4       0      2          0      0        0           35
                        7:30 - 7:45  5             0     1        0         1    0       10                0   6        0          5       0      7          0      1        0           36
                        7:45 - 8:00  2             0     4        0         1    0       19                0   6        0          6       0      8          0      4        0           50
                        8:00 - 8:15  1             0     2        0         1    0       13                0   11       0          6       0      8          0      3        1           45
                        8:15 - 8:30  1             0     3        0         0    0       17                0   14       0          8       0      6          0      2        0           51
                        8:30 - 8:45  1             0     7        0         0    0       23                0   8        0          12      0      11         0      2        1           64
                        8:45 - 9:00  2             0     1        0         0    0       18                0   11       0          10      0      10         0      6        0           58
                      MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A             B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J          K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                        9:00 - 9:15  0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:15 - 9:30  0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:30 - 9:45  0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                        9:45 - 10:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:00 - 10:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:15 - 10:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:30 - 10:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       10:45 - 11:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:00 - 11:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:15 - 11:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:30 - 11:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       11:45 - 12:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:00 - 12:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:15 - 12:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:30 - 12:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       12:45 - 13:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:00 - 13:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:15 - 13:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:30 - 13:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       13:45 - 14:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0   0        0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       14:00 - 14:15 4             0     1        0         0    1       17                0   10       0          13      0      5          0      5        0           56
                       14:15 - 14:30 3             1     7        0         0    0       11                0   17       0          11      0      6          0      7        0           63
                       14:30 - 14:45 7             0     6        0         2    0       13                0   24       0          8       0      3          0      7        0           70
                       14:45 - 15:00 4             0     3        0         1    0       15                0   10       0          10      0      11         0      14       0           68
                       15:00 - 15:15 0             0     8        0         3    0       15                0   22       0          12      0      10         0      11       0           81
                       15:15 - 15:30 10            0     10       0         2    1       9                 0   7        0          8       0      13         0      5        0           65
                       15:30 - 15:45 6             1     9        0         1    0       20                0   18       0          14      0      11         0      12       0           92
                       15:45 - 16:00 4             0     13       0         0    0       13                0   20       0          8       0      6          0      7        0           71
                      PM PERIOD COUNTS
                          Period     A             B     C        D         E    F       G                 H    I       J          K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       16:00 - 16:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:15 - 16:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:30 - 16:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       16:45 - 17:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:00 - 17:15 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:15 - 17:30 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:30 - 17:45 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       17:45 - 18:00 0             0     0        0         0    0       0                 0    0       0          0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2364 North 1450 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                801.636.0891


                                                                                               Intersection Turning Movement Summary
Intersection: 700 East / 12200 South                                                                                                        Date:                                         9-19-19, Thu
        North/South: 700 East                                                                                                               Day of Week Adjustment:                       100.0%
           East/West: 12200 South                                                                                                           Month of Year Adjustment:                     100.0%
 Jurisdiction: Draper                                                                                                                       Adjustment Station #:                               0
Project Title: Draper Beehive Charter School TIS                                                                                            Growth Rate:                                    0.0%
  Project No: UT19-1541                                                                                                                     Number of Years:                                    0
    Weather: Clear

                               AM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:45 AM
                           AM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 7:45 AM-8:00 AM
                                             AM PHF: 0.83                                                                         1197
                                                                                                                                  1204
                           SCHOOL PEAK HOUR PERIOD: 3:00 PM-4:00 PM
                      SCHOOL PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: 2:45 PM-3:00 PM
                                        SCHOOL PHF: 0.94
                                                                                                                         662                 535




                                                                                                                                                    700 East
                               PM PEAK HOUR PERIOD: -                                                                    507                 697
                           PM PEAK 15 MINUTE PERIOD: -
                                             PM PHF:
                                                                                                                 36      583          43
                                                                                                                 19      452          36
                                                                                          22                                                                    0       0
                                                                                           5
                                                              12200 South

                                                                                                                   Total Entering Vehicles                      22     51
                                                   76    42                                                                    1280                             5       7                           31     72
        138     81                                                                16      15                                   1318                             4      14                                                       97   144
                                                   62    39                       8        5                                                                                                        66     72
                                                                                  38      19


                                                                                                                                                                            12200 South
                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                  0        0                             18           660     25                0
                                                                                                                         33           468     21                                                         Legend

                                                                                                                                                                                                          AM
                                                                                                                 475                  703                                                                School
                                                                                                                 635                  522                                                                 PM
                                                                                                 700 East




                                                                                                                        1178
                                                                                                                        1157




                                                700 East                           700 East                             12200 South                            12200 South
                       RAW COUNT
                                               Northbound                         Southbound                             Eastbound                              Westbound                 TOTAL
                       SUMMARIES
                                       Left    Thru    Right     Peds   Left     Thru    Right        Peds       Left   Thru   Right         Peds   Left       Thru   Right    Peds

                     AM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B             C        D         E     F       G                 H     I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       7:00 - 7:15  0     112            0        0         4    52       0                 0     3      1            2       0      2          0      2        0          178
                       7:15 - 7:30  0     95             1        0         6    60       3                 4     7      0            3       0      1          1      2        0          179
                       7:30 - 7:45  3     189            1        0         5    86       4                 0     6      0            7       0      0          0      4        0          305
                       7:45 - 8:00  6     201            6        0         7    142      7                 1     4      0            6       0      2          0      5        0          386
                       8:00 - 8:15  5     159            3        0         8    122      2                 1     2      2            1       0      0          2      5        0          311
                       8:15 - 8:30  2     164            8        0         4    84       3                 1     2      0            6       0      2          0      4        0          279
                       8:30 - 8:45  5     136            8        0         17   104      7                 2     7      3            6       0      0          3      8        0          304
                       8:45 - 9:00  2     138            7        0         6    81       3                 0     4      10           4       0      0          2      9        0          266
                     MIDDAY PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B             C        D         E     F       G                 H     I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                       9:00 - 9:15  0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:15 - 9:30  0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:30 - 9:45  0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                       9:45 - 10:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:00 - 10:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:15 - 10:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:30 - 10:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      10:45 - 11:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:00 - 11:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:15 - 11:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:30 - 11:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      11:45 - 12:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:00 - 12:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:15 - 12:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:30 - 12:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      12:45 - 13:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:00 - 13:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:15 - 13:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:30 - 13:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      13:45 - 14:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      14:00 - 14:15 3     87             8        0         2    123      5                 2     6       2           4       0      7          0      7        1          254
                      14:15 - 14:30 4     88             5        0         6    142      6                 0     7       0           9       0      7          0      11       0          285
                      14:30 - 14:45 4     116            8        0         9    119      3                 1     4       2           11      0      9          0      5        0          290
                      14:45 - 15:00 14    123            8        0         17   141      6                 2     2       1           10      0      10         1      17       0          350
                      15:00 - 15:15 9     109            6        0         9    146      5                 1     7       2           9       0      3          4      13       0          322
                      15:15 - 15:30 5     123            5        0         12   151      6                 12    5       2           8       0      2          1      16       0          336
                      15:30 - 15:45 9     126            7        0         11   131      11                4     0       0           5       0      4          1      16       0          321
                      15:45 - 16:00 10    110            3        0         11   155      14                5     4       4           16      0      5          1      6        0          339
                     PM PERIOD COUNTS
                         Period     A      B             C        D         E     F       G                 H     I       J           K       L      M          N      O        P         TOTAL
                      16:00 - 16:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:15 - 16:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:30 - 16:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      16:45 - 17:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:00 - 17:15 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:15 - 17:30 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:30 - 17:45 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
                      17:45 - 18:00 0      0             0        0         0     0       0                 0     0       0           0       0      0          0      0        0           0
    Beehive Academy Charter School
                    Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX B
         LOS Results
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     300 East & 12200 South
Type:             Roundabout
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          202          176         87            2.3           A
            T          292          237         81            2.6           A
   NB
                Subtotal       494          413         84     2.5          A
                   T           266          263         99     3.9          A
                  R             34          35          103    3.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal       300          298         99     3.9          A
                   L            16          15          95     2.9          A
                  R            140          141         101    2.8          A
    EB
                Subtotal       156          156         100    2.8          A




  Total                        948          867         91     3.0          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            T          624           516         83           1.7           A
            R           49           38          78           1.3           A
   NB
                Subtotal       673          554         82     1.7          A
                   L            13          11          83     5.2          A
                   T           393          393         100    0.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal       406          404         100    0.6          A
                   L           31           29          94    13.2          B
                   R            19          21          112    7.1          A
   WB
                Subtotal        50          50          100   10.6          B




  Total                       1,128        1,008        89     1.7          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L          474          320          68          233.3          F
             T          386          269          70          121.8          F
   NB
            R           249          172          69          102.0          F
          Subtotal     1,109         761          69          164.2          F
             L          136          129          95           39.1          D
             T          173          170          98           44.7          D
   SB
            R           165          167          101          11.2          B
          Subtotal      474          466          98           31.1          C
             L          199          198          100          92.1          F
             T         1,170        1,170         100          44.6          D
   EB
            R           114          121          106          15.8          B
          Subtotal     1,483        1,489         100          48.6          D
             L          180          176          98           66.1          E
             T         1,276        1,286         101          28.5          C
   WB
            R            88           87          99           24.3          C
          Subtotal     1,544        1,549         100          32.5          C
  Total                4,610        4,265         93           62.7          E


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
                   L            5            4          80    70.5          F
                   R            16          15          95    16.4          C
   NB
                Subtotal        21          19          90    27.8          D
                   L            2            0           0
                  R             74          72          97    17.1          C
    SB
                Subtotal       76            72         95    17.1          C
                   L           40            37         92    19.6          C
                   T          1,482        1,397        94     6.4          A
    EB
                  R            33            32         97     5.9          A
                Subtotal      1,555        1,466        94     6.7          A
                   L           34            34         100   28.7          D
                   T          1,464        1,466        100    5.4          A
   WB
                  R            11            10         89     5.2          A
                Subtotal      1,509        1,510        100    5.9          A
  Total                       3,162        3,067        97     6.7          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L          12           11          90           2.5           A
             T          33           30          91           1.4           A
   NB
            R           6             6          96           2.4           A
          Subtotal      51           47          92           1.8           A
             L          8             8          97           1.4           A
             T          46           44          96           1.7           A
   SB
                Subtotal        54          52          96     1.7          A
                  R             1            1          100    1.5          A
    EB
                Subtotal        1            1          100    1.5          A
                   L            9            8          86     1.8          A
                   T            33          36          108    0.3          A
   WB
                  R             1            1          100    1.7          A
                Subtotal        43          45          105    0.6          A
  Total                        150          145         97     1.4          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L           19          19          101          4.5           A
             T          680          641         94           2.1           A
   NB
            R            26          22          85           1.0           A
          Subtotal      725          682         94           2.1           A
             L           37          36          97           8.2           A
             T          466          481         103          1.3           A
   SB
            R            20          20          101          0.7           A
          Subtotal      523          537         103          1.7           A
                   L           15           15          98    21.8          C
                   T            5             6         120   21.3          C
   EB
                  R            20            22         111    6.1          A
                Subtotal       40            43         108   13.7          B
                   L            4             3         75    21.7          C
                   T            5             6         120   18.0          C
   WB
                  R            23            21         92    10.1          B
                Subtotal       32            30         94    12.8          B
  Total                       1,320        1,292        98     2.6          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                                Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                                                              04/24/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL     EBR        NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2      0.2       0.0     0.0     0.3       0.3     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.1       0.1     0.2     0.3       0.0     0.7
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.9      2.8       2.3     2.6     3.9       3.5     3.0
Vehicles Entered                 15     140       176     237     262         35    865
Vehicles Exited                  15     141       176     237     263         35    867
Hourly Exit Rate                 15     141       176     237     263         35    867
Input Volume                     16     140       202     292     266         34    948
% of Volume                      95     101         87      81      99      103       91

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.1       4.2       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.1       0.0       0.2     0.0     0.0      0.1      0.5
Total Del/Veh (s)             13.2       7.1       1.7     1.3     5.2      0.5      1.7
Vehicles Entered                29        20      516       38      11     393     1007
Vehicles Exited                 29        21      516       38      11     393     1008
Hourly Exit Rate                29        21      516       38      11     393     1008
Input Volume                    31        19      624       49      13     393     1128
% of Volume                     94      112         83      78      83     100        89

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.1      0.2       0.1     0.0      0.0    0.0     77.4     64.9     42.9      0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               2.1      0.5       2.1     0.0      0.0    0.0    582.7    587.5    600.6      0.5     0.1     0.4
Total Delay (hr)                 5.2    14.7        0.5     3.3    10.2     0.6     22.6       9.6      5.1     1.4     2.1     0.5
Total Del/Veh (s)              92.1     44.6      15.8    66.1     28.5    24.3    233.3    121.8    102.0    39.1    44.7    11.2
Vehicles Entered                200    1166        120     178    1278       87      327      274      174     131     172     167
Vehicles Exited                 198    1170        121     176    1286       87      320      269      172     129     170     167
Hourly Exit Rate                198    1170        121     176    1286       87      320      269      172     129     170     167
Input Volume                    199    1170        114     180    1276       88      474      386      249     136     173     165
% of Volume                     100      100       106       98     101      99       68        70       69      95      98    101

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)            185.6
Denied Del/Veh (s)           144.2
Total Delay (hr)               75.9
Total Del/Veh (s)              62.7
Vehicles Entered              4274
Vehicles Exited               4265
Hourly Exit Rate              4265
Input Volume                  4610
% of Volume                      93


Hales Engineering                                                                                                     801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                             Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                        Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                                                       04/24/2020

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBR    SBL    SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.5     0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1           1.2      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.2      2.5       0.1      0.3     2.2    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.4      5.8
Total Del/Veh (s)              19.6      6.4       5.9    28.7      5.4    5.2   70.5   16.4          17.1      6.7
Vehicles Entered                 37    1402         32       34   1454      10      4     15     0      73    3061
Vehicles Exited                  37    1397         32       34   1466      10      4     15     0      72    3067
Hourly Exit Rate                 37    1397         32       34   1466      10      4     15     0      72    3067
Input Volume                     40    1482         33       34   1464      11      5     16     2      74    3162
% of Volume                      92       94        97     100     100      89     80     95     0      97       97

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT      All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.5     1.8         0.3     1.7    2.5     1.4    2.4    1.4    1.7    1.4
Vehicles Entered                  1       8          36       1     11      30      6      8     44   145
Vehicles Exited                   1       8          36       1     11      30      6      8     44   145
Hourly Exit Rate                  1       8          36       1     11      30      6      8     44   145
Input Volume                      1       9          33       1     12      33      6      8     46   150
% of Volume                    100       86        108     100      90      91     96     97     96     97

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.1       0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1       0.1       0.1    0.1      0.2    3.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1     0.5       0.4
Total Delay (hr)                0.1       0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.1    0.0    0.4    0.0    0.1     0.2       0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              21.8     21.3        6.1   21.7    18.0    10.1    4.5    2.1    1.0    8.2     1.3       0.7
Vehicles Entered                 15         6        22      3        6     22     19   643      23     36    482         20
Vehicles Exited                  15         6        22      3        6     21     19   641      22     36    481         20
Hourly Exit Rate                 15         6        22      3        6     21     19   641      22     36    481         20
Input Volume                     15         5        20      4        5     23     19   680      26     37    466         20
% of Volume                      98      120       111      75     120      92   101      94     85     97    103       101

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.9
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.6
Vehicles Entered              1297
Vehicles Exited               1292
Hourly Exit Rate              1292
Input Volume                  1320
% of Volume                      98


Hales Engineering                                                                                             801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                     Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                  Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                            04/24/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                  185.8
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                 162.8
Total Delay (hr)                                     88.3
Total Del/Veh (s)                                    60.6
Vehicles Entered                                    3750
Vehicles Exited                                     5062
Hourly Exit Rate                                    5062
Input Volume                                      17799
% of Volume                                            28




Hales Engineering                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                           Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                    04/24/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       NB         SB
Directions Served               LR       LT         TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              69       66         85
Average Queue (ft)              19        6         31
95th Queue (ft)                 53       34         73
Link Distance (ft)             486      104       1200
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              63       35        18    32    15
Average Queue (ft)              23       16         1     5     1
95th Queue (ft)                 54       42        14    24    22
Link Distance (ft)             317                362         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                           0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                           0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)              1       0         0     0    0
Queuing Penalty (veh)             0       0         0     0    0




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                                              04/24/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB         EB    EB   WB     WB     WB    WB     NB     NB    NB      SB
Directions Served                L        T          T     R     L      T      T    TR     L      T     R       L
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      672        637   300   268    312    302   290   400    956   250     199
Average Queue (ft)             180      369        337   101   130    174    172   164   399    915    98      87
95th Queue (ft)                277      622        582   303   235    276    263   253   402   1014   223     152
Link Distance (ft)                     1463       1463                935    935                900
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                                            69
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                                             0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                       200   200                 215   350          150     150
Storage Blk Time (%)            40       43        24            6      6      4     3    82    19      2       1
Queuing Penalty (veh)          236       86        28           28     10     22    14   521   140     20       3

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB
Directions Served                T        R
Maximum Queue (ft)             273      200
Average Queue (ft)             126       70
95th Queue (ft)                227      150
Link Distance (ft)             362
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0
Queuing Penalty (veh)            1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                   125
Storage Blk Time (%)            11        0
Queuing Penalty (veh)           33        0

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    WB     WB     WB     NB    SB   SB
Directions Served                L        T        TR      L      T     TR   LTR     L   TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              67       12         7     70      3      2    55    21   92
Average Queue (ft)              20        0         0     23      0      0    17     1   42
95th Queue (ft)                 51        7         3     55      3      2    46    22   75
Link Distance (ft)                      935       935          1801   1801   562   363
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                       150                             100
Storage Blk Time (%)                                                                       0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                                      0




Hales Engineering                                                                                     801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                             Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                               Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background                                                                         04/24/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                        WB       NB        SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)               3        6        20
Average Queue (ft)               0        0         1
95th Queue (ft)                  3        5        11
Link Distance (ft)             883      363       102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB      WB        WB    NB     NB   B20   B20   SB      SB
Directions Served              LTR       LT         R    L     TR     T          L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              70       37        43   37      2   235   114   39       1
Average Queue (ft)              26        9        17    7      0    16     3   14       0
95th Queue (ft)                 56       33        43   29      2   112    49   36       1
Link Distance (ft)             847     1010                   263   251   251         1197
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                 0     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                 1     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100                     100
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1144




Hales Engineering                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                        Page 6
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                        Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     300 East & 12200 South
Type:             Roundabout
                    Demand           Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                  Avg          LOS
            L          202          205         102                 2.6           A
            T          292          290         99                  2.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       494           495          100        2.8          A
                   T           266           260          98         4.1          A
                  R             34           34           100        3.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal       300           294          98         4.1          A
                   L            16           17           108        3.0          A
                  R            140           142          102        2.8          A
    EB
                Subtotal       156           159          102        2.8          A




  Total                        948           948          100        3.2          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
            T          624           613         98                 2.4           A
            R           49           48          98                 2.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       673           661           98        2.4          A
                   L            13           12            91        6.0          A
                   T           393           391           99        0.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal       406           403           99        0.8          A
                   L           31            30            97       17.1          C
                   R            19           20           107        9.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal        50           50           100       14.0          B




  Total                       1,128         1,114          99        2.3          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                        Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L          474          465          98                72.5          E
             T          387          382          99                71.2          E
   NB
            R           249          247          99                41.2          D
          Subtotal     1,110        1,094         99                65.0          E
             L          136          134          98                83.9          F
             T          173          169          98                65.8          E
   SB
            R           165          166          100               15.3          B
          Subtotal      474          469          99                53.1          D
             L          199          194          98                88.9          F
             T         1,170        1,158         99                37.0          D
   EB
            R           114          111          98                13.4          B
          Subtotal     1,483        1,463         99                42.1          D
             L          180          178          99                78.4          E
             T         1,276        1,287         101               22.9          C
   WB
            R            88           89          101               22.5          C
          Subtotal     1,544        1,554         101               29.2          C
  Total                4,611        4,580         99                44.5          D


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %                  Avg          LOS
            L           5            5          100                 44.8          D
            R          16           18          114                 17.2          B
   NB
                Subtotal        21           23           110       23.2          C
                   L            2             2           100       46.8          D
                  R             74           78           105       22.0          C
    SB
                Subtotal       76             80          105       22.6          C
                   L           40             38          94        36.1          D
                   T          1,482         1,470         99         9.4          A
    EB
                  R            33             33          100        8.1          A
                Subtotal      1,555         1,541         99        10.0          A
                   L           34             36          106       41.1          D
                   T          1,464         1,471         100        7.6          A
   WB
                  R            11             12          107        7.2          A
                Subtotal      1,509         1,519         101        8.4          A
  Total                       3,162         3,163         100        9.7          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                        Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
             L          12           13          106                2.4           A
             T          33           32          97                 1.5           A
   NB
            R           6             6          96                 2.4           A
          Subtotal      51           51          100                1.8           A
             L          8             9          109                1.3           A
             T          46           47          103                1.7           A
   SB
                Subtotal        54           56           104        1.6          A
                  R             1             1           100        2.4          A
    EB
                Subtotal        1             1           100        2.4          A
                   L            9            10           108        1.8          A
                   T            33           35           105        0.3          A
   WB
                  R             1             1           100        2.6          A
                Subtotal        43           46           107        0.7          A
  Total                        150           154          103        1.4          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
             L           19          20          107                 4.9          A
             T          680          690         101                 2.7          A
   NB
            R            26          25          96                  1.2          A
          Subtotal      725          735         101                 2.7          A
             L           37          34          91                  8.6          A
             T          466          475         102                 1.4          A
   SB
            R            20          21          106                 0.7          A
          Subtotal      523          530         101                 1.8          A
             L           15          14          92                 26.5          D
             T           5            5          100                23.7          C
   EB
            R            20          21          106                 7.2          A
          Subtotal       40          40          100                16.0          C
                   L            4            4            100       27.6          D
                   T            5              5          100       30.7          D
   WB
                  R            23             23          101       13.5          B
                Subtotal       32             32          100       18.0          C
  Total                       1,320         1,337         101        3.1          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                              Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                                                                                05/08/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL     EBR        NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2      0.2       0.0     0.0     0.3       0.2     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.1       0.1     0.2     0.3       0.0     0.8
Total Del/Veh (s)               3.0      2.8       2.6     2.9     4.1       3.7     3.2
Vehicles Entered                 17     142       205     290     260         34    948
Vehicles Exited                  17     142       205     290     260         34    948
Hourly Exit Rate                 17     142       205     290     260         34    948
Input Volume                     16     140       202     292     266         34    948
% of Volume                    108      102       102       99      98      100     100

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.2       4.1       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.1       0.1       0.4     0.0     0.0      0.1      0.7
Total Del/Veh (s)             17.1       9.3       2.4     2.1     6.0      0.6      2.3
Vehicles Entered                31        20      614       49      12     391     1117
Vehicles Exited                 30        20      613       48      12     391     1114
Hourly Exit Rate                30        20      613       48      12     391     1114
Input Volume                    31        19      624       49      13     393     1128
% of Volume                     97      107         98      98      91       99       99

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.3     0.7
Total Delay (hr)                 4.9    12.1        0.4     3.9      8.3     0.6     9.7      7.7     2.9     3.2     3.1     0.7
Total Del/Veh (s)              88.9     37.0      13.4    78.4     22.9    22.5    72.5     71.2    41.2    83.9    65.8    15.3
Vehicles Entered                194    1156        111     178    1289        89    471      383     248     133     170     166
Vehicles Exited                 194    1158        111     178    1287        89    465      382     247     134     169     166
Hourly Exit Rate                194    1158        111     178    1287        89    465      382     247     134     169     166
Input Volume                    199    1170        114     180    1276        88    474      387     249     136     173     165
% of Volume                       98      99         98      99     101     101       98       99      99      98      98    100

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)               57.4
Total Del/Veh (s)              44.5
Vehicles Entered              4588
Vehicles Exited               4580
Hourly Exit Rate              4580
Input Volume                  4611
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                           Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                            Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                                                                               05/08/2020

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBR     SBL     SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.0     0.8     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.0     1.1     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.4      3.9        0.1     0.4     3.2     0.0     0.1     0.1     0.0     0.5     8.6
Total Del/Veh (s)              36.1      9.4        8.1   41.1      7.6     7.2   44.8    17.2    46.8    22.0      9.7
Vehicles Entered                 38    1468          33      36   1468       12       5      18       2      78   3158
Vehicles Exited                  38    1470          33      36   1471       12       5      18       2      78   3163
Hourly Exit Rate                 38    1470          33      36   1471       12       5      18       2      78   3163
Input Volume                     40    1482          33      34   1464       11       5      16       2      74   3162
% of Volume                      94       99       100     106     100     107     100     114     100     105     100

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1     0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.4      1.8        0.3     2.6    2.4     1.5     2.4     1.3     1.7     1.4
Vehicles Entered                  1       10         35       1     13      32       6       9      47    154
Vehicles Exited                   1       10         35       1     13      32       6       9      47    154
Hourly Exit Rate                  1       10         35       1     13      32       6       9      47    154
Input Volume                      1        9         33       1     12      33       6       8      46    150
% of Volume                    100      108        105     100    106       97      96    109     103     103

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1       0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1       0.1       0.1     0.2     0.2     3.4    0.0     0.0     0.0     3.0     0.5       0.5
Total Delay (hr)                0.1       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1    0.0     0.5     0.0     0.1     0.2       0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              26.5     23.7        7.2   27.6    30.7    13.5     4.9     2.7     1.2     8.6     1.4       0.7
Vehicles Entered                 14         5        20       4       5      23     20    690       25      34    476         21
Vehicles Exited                  14         5        21       4       5      23     20    690       25      34    475         21
Hourly Exit Rate                 14         5        21       4       5      23     20    690       25      34    475         21
Input Volume                     15         5        20       4       5      23     19    680       26      37    466         20
% of Volume                      92      100       106     100     100     101    107     101       96      91    102       106

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.3
Total Delay (hr)                1.2
Total Del/Veh (s)               3.1
Vehicles Entered              1337
Vehicles Exited               1337
Hourly Exit Rate              1337
Input Volume                  1320
% of Volume                    101


Hales Engineering                                                                                                 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                         Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                 Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                               05/08/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    0.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   0.7
Total Delay (hr)                                    72.7
Total Del/Veh (s)                                   47.2
Vehicles Entered                                   1496
Vehicles Exited                                    5392
Hourly Exit Rate                                   5392
Input Volume                                      17785
% of Volume                                           30




Hales Engineering                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                          Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                                        05/08/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       NB         SB
Directions Served               LR       LT         TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              65       88         93
Average Queue (ft)              20       11         34
95th Queue (ft)                 52       53         75
Link Distance (ft)             486      104       1200
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              71       49        58    34    59
Average Queue (ft)              25       16         3     5     3
95th Queue (ft)                 57       44        32    24    29
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                           0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                           1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)              2       0         0     0    0
Queuing Penalty (veh)             0       0         0     0    0




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                                                                05/08/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB    WB     NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T     R     L      T      T    TR     L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      596       547   300   305    409    394   324   320   400   571     250
Average Queue (ft)             176      312       297    68   163    182    175   164   185   292   416     193
95th Queue (ft)                266      516       495   243   290    357    342   293   300   460   651     325
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772                923    923                     556
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                                                 5
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                                                60
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                      200   200                 215   250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            43       40       18           11      4      3     2     4     7    47       7
Queuing Penalty (veh)          251       81       20           49      7     16    11    23    49   342      57

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             280      333       200
Average Queue (ft)             141      168        95
95th Queue (ft)                240      284       202
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     1
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     3
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                125
Storage Blk Time (%)             5       22         1
Queuing Penalty (veh)           16       68         3

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB   WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T        TR     L      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              89      180       177    79    131    138    57    53   101
Average Queue (ft)              26       64        71    27     40     33    17     3    44
95th Queue (ft)                 64      148       153    63    103     92    47    25    83
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923         1801   1801   563   362
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                      150                             100
Storage Blk Time (%)                       1                    0                         1
Queuing Penalty (veh)                      0                    0                         0




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                               Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated                                                             05/08/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                        EB       WB        SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)               3        3        15
Average Queue (ft)               0        0         1
95th Queue (ft)                  3        3         8
Link Distance (ft)             327      883       102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB      WB        WB    NB     NB   B20   B20   SB      SB
Directions Served              LTR       LT         R    L     TR     T          L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              63       43        54   32      4   347   279   54      15
Average Queue (ft)              27        9        18    7      0    56    22   12       1
95th Queue (ft)                 56       33        47   28      4   238   138   36      16
Link Distance (ft)             847     1010                   263   251   251         1197
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                 2     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                 6     1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100                     100
Storage Blk Time (%)                                0                                   0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                               0                                   0

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1063




Hales Engineering                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                        Page 6
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12200 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume          Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          202          194          96                3.7          A
             T          294          286          97                4.0          A
   NB
            R            23           22          96                3.7          A
          Subtotal      519          502          97                3.9          A
             L           10            9          88               11.9          B
             T          267          271          101               8.6          A
   SB
            R            34           37          109               6.5          A
          Subtotal      311          317          102               8.4          A
             L           16           16          102               7.5          A
             T           49           49          101              10.3          B
   EB
            R           140          142          102               7.7          A
          Subtotal      205          207          101               8.3          A
             L          144          146          101               5.4          A
             T           83           80          96                3.7          A
   WB
            R            6             6          96                6.4          A
          Subtotal      233          232          100               4.8          A
  Total                1,268        1,258         99                6.0          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          647           630         97                2.5           A
            R           49           46          94                1.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       696           676             97     2.5          A
                   L            13           13              98    12.3          B
                   T           557           561             101    5.3          A
    SB
                Subtotal       570           574             101    5.5          A
                   L            31           27              87    81.7          F
                   R            19           19              101   25.6          D
   WB
                Subtotal        50           46              92    58.5          F




  Total                       1,316         1,296            98     5.8          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L          474          473          100               84.1          F
             T          390          376          97                70.6          E
   NB
            R           270          268          99                53.0          D
          Subtotal     1,134        1,117         99                72.1          E
             L          136          130          95               111.1          F
             T          189          188          99                78.5          E
   SB
            R           293          288          98                23.3          C
          Subtotal      618          606          98                59.3          E
             L          219          212          97               117.0          F
             T         1,342        1,316         98                56.6          E
   EB
            R           114          113          99                29.7          C
          Subtotal     1,675        1,641         98                62.6          E
             L          180          172          96               193.1          F
             T         1,276        1,269         99                40.0          D
   WB
            R            88           89          101               34.7          C
          Subtotal     1,544        1,530         99                56.9          E
  Total                4,972        4,894         98                63.0          E


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
            L           5            4          80                 76.0          E
            R          16           16          102                22.0          C
   NB
                Subtotal        21           20              95    32.8          C
                   L            82           84              103   80.0          E
                  R             74           70              94    21.8          C
    SB
                Subtotal       156           154             99    53.5          D
                   L           233           224             96    54.0          D
                   T          1,484         1,457            98    11.3          B
    EB
                  R             33            38             115    9.4          A
                Subtotal      1,750         1,719            98    16.8          B
                   L            34            34             100   47.5          D
                   T          1,464         1,471            100   20.2          C
   WB
                  R            131           131             100   19.7          B
                Subtotal      1,629         1,636            100   20.7          C
  Total                       3,556         3,529            99    20.4          C
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L          325          314         97                4.5           A
             T           33          35          106               2.7           A
   NB
            R            6            6          96                4.3           A
          Subtotal      364          355         98                4.3           A
             L           8            9          109               2.9           A
             T           46          44          96                3.1           A
   SB
                Subtotal        54           53              98     3.1          A
                   T            89           93              104    1.6          A
                  R             81           80              99     2.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal       170           173             102    1.8          A
                   L            9             9              97     3.4          A
                   T           120           124             104    2.8          A
   WB
                  R             1             1              100    2.0          A
                Subtotal       130           134             103    2.8          A
  Total                        799           796             100    3.2          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L           19          20          107                5.7          A
             T          680          683         100                2.9          A
   NB
            R            26          28          108                1.3          A
          Subtotal      725          731         101                2.9          A
             L           37          40          107               11.8          B
             T          466          457         98                 2.8          A
   SB
            R           106          107         101                1.2          A
          Subtotal      609          604         99                 3.1          A
                   L            73           74              101   41.7          E
                   T            5              6             120   35.2          E
   EB
                  R            20             21             106   27.7          D
                Subtotal       98            101             103   38.4          E
                   L            4              4             100   20.4          C
                   T            5              7             140   30.8          D
   WB
                  R            23             25             110   15.7          C
                Subtotal       32             36             113   19.2          C
  Total                       1,464         1,472            101    5.8          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg             %                Avg          LOS
            T         249          255           103               0.5           A
    EB
                Subtotal       249           255             102    0.5          A
                   T           182          178              98    0.9           A
                   R           480           478             100    3.5          A
   WB
                Subtotal       662           656             99     2.8          A




  Total                        911           911             100    2.2          A


Intersection:     300 East & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
                   T           314          306              97    0.7           A
   NB
                Subtotal       314           306             97     0.7          A
                   T           310           317             102    0.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal       310           317             102    0.7          A




  Total                        625           623             100    0.7          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     Access 2 (egress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          15            14          92                0.8           A
   NW
                Subtotal        15           14              93     0.8          A
                   T            89           87              98     1.0          A
    SE
                Subtotal        89           87              98     1.0          A
                   L           138          145              105   13.5          B
                   R           182           178             98    11.4          B
   SW
                Subtotal       320           323             101   12.3          B




  Total                        424           424             100    9.7          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                         Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                                                 08/10/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR    NBL      NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2       0.2       0.2     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    2.0    0.0      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0       0.1       0.3     0.2    0.1    0.0    0.2      0.3    0.0    0.0    0.7      0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               7.5     10.3        7.7     5.4    3.7    6.4    3.7      4.0    3.7   11.9    8.6      6.5
Vehicles Entered                 16        49      143     146      80      6   194      286      22      9   271        37
Vehicles Exited                  16        49      142     146      80      6   194      286      22      9   271        37
Hourly Exit Rate                 16        49      142     146      80      6   194      286      22      9   271        37
Input Volume                     16        49      140     144      83      6   202      294      23     10   267        34
% of Volume                    102       101       102     101      96     96     96       97     96     88   101      109

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1
Total Delay (hr)                2.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               6.0
Vehicles Entered              1259
Vehicles Exited               1258
Hourly Exit Rate              1258
Input Volume                  1268
% of Volume                      99

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.1       4.2       0.0     0.0     0.2    0.1     0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.6       0.1       0.4     0.0     0.0    0.8     2.1
Total Del/Veh (s)             81.7     25.6        2.5     1.9    12.3    5.3     5.8
Vehicles Entered                27        19      630       46      13   562    1297
Vehicles Exited                 27        19      630       46      13   561    1296
Hourly Exit Rate                27        19      630       46      13   561    1296
Input Volume                    31        19      647       49      13   557    1316
% of Volume                     87      101         97      94      98   101       98




Hales Engineering                                                                                             801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                     Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                              Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                                                         08/10/2020

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBL       EBT       EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.1      0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.5     1.0      0.9
Total Delay (hr)                7.2     21.1        0.9      9.8    14.3      0.9   11.5      7.7     4.0      4.2     4.3      1.9
Total Del/Veh (s)            117.0      56.6      29.7    193.1     40.0    34.7    84.1    70.6    53.0    111.1    78.5     23.3
Vehicles Entered               216     1327        113      178    1279        89    472     380     270      132     190      288
Vehicles Exited                212     1316        113      172    1269        89    473     376     268      130     188      288
Hourly Exit Rate               212     1316        113      172    1269        89    473     376     268      130     188      288
Input Volume                   219     1342        114      180    1276        88    474     390     270      136     189      293
% of Volume                      97       98         99       96      99     101     100       97      99       95      99       98

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1
Total Delay (hr)               87.8
Total Del/Veh (s)              63.0
Vehicles Entered              4934
Vehicles Exited               4894
Hourly Exit Rate              4894
Input Volume                  4972
% of Volume                      98

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL     NBR     SBL      SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0     0.9       0.1     0.2    0.1      0.1     0.1     0.8      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                 3.5     4.6        0.1     0.5       8.3     0.7    0.1      0.1     2.0     0.4     20.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              54.0     11.3        9.4   47.5      20.2    19.7    76.0    22.0    80.0     21.8     20.4
Vehicles Entered                225    1453          38      35    1469      130       4       16      86      70    3526
Vehicles Exited                 224    1457          38      34    1471      131       4       16      84      70    3529
Hourly Exit Rate                224    1457          38      34    1471      131       4       16      84      70    3529
Input Volume                    233    1484          33      34    1464      131       5       16      82      74    3556
% of Volume                       96      98       115     100       100     100      80     102     103       94       99




Hales Engineering                                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                            Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                                                   08/10/2020

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBU       EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.1     0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.1     0.0    0.4    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.7
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.1      1.6       2.1     3.4      2.8     2.0    4.5    2.7    4.3     2.9     3.1     3.2
Vehicles Entered                 82       92        80       9     124        1   314      35      6       9      44    796
Vehicles Exited                  81       93        80       9     124        1   314      35      6       9      44    796
Hourly Exit Rate                 81       93        80       9     124        1   314      35      6       9      44    796
Input Volume                     81       89        81       9     120        1   325      33      6       8      46    799
% of Volume                    100      104         99      97     104     100      97   106      96    109       96    100

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.1      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.2     0.2     3.2    0.0    0.0     0.0     3.0    0.6      0.5
Total Delay (hr)                 0.9      0.1       0.2     0.0     0.1     0.1    0.0    0.5     0.0     0.1    0.4      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              41.7     35.2      27.7    20.4    30.8    15.7     5.7    2.9     1.3   11.8     2.8      1.2
Vehicles Entered                  73        6        21       4       7      25     20   683       28      40   457      108
Vehicles Exited                   74        6        21       4       7      25     20   683       28      40   457      107
Hourly Exit Rate                  74        6        21       4       7      25     20   683       28      40   457      107
Input Volume                      73        5        20       4       5      23     19   680       26      37   466      106
% of Volume                     101      120       106     100     140     110    107    100     108     107      98     101

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4
Total Delay (hr)                2.4
Total Del/Veh (s)               5.8
Vehicles Entered              1472
Vehicles Exited               1472
Hourly Exit Rate              1472
Input Volume                  1464
% of Volume                    101




Hales Engineering                                                                                               801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                       Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                  Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                       08/10/2020

9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress) Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT     WBT        WBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.3      0.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.1        2.0      1.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.5      0.5
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.5      0.9        3.5      2.2
Vehicles Entered               255      178        477      910
Vehicles Exited                255      178        478      911
Hourly Exit Rate               255      178        478      911
Input Volume                   249      182        480      911
% of Volume                    103        98       100      100

27: 300 East & Access 3 Performance by movement
Movement                       NBT      SBT          All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.3        0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.1      0.1        0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.7      0.7        0.7
Vehicles Entered               306      317        623
Vehicles Exited                306      317        623
Hourly Exit Rate               306      317        623
Input Volume                   314      310        625
% of Volume                      97     102        100

29: Access 2 (egress) Performance by movement
Movement                       SET     NWT        SWL      SWR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0         0.1       0.1    0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0     0.0         1.5       1.3    1.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0         0.5       0.6    1.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.0     0.8       13.5      11.4     9.7
Vehicles Entered                 87      14        144       178    423
Vehicles Exited                  87      14        145       178    424
Hourly Exit Rate                 87      14        145       178    424
Input Volume                     89      15        138       182    424
% of Volume                      98      92        105         98   100




Hales Engineering                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                           Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                  Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                       08/10/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                     0.9
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                    1.4
Total Delay (hr)                                   121.3
Total Del/Veh (s)                                    65.2
Vehicles Entered                                    2258
Vehicles Exited                                     6479
Hourly Exit Rate                                    6479
Input Volume                                      22745
% of Volume                                            28




Hales Engineering                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                           Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                               08/10/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       WB        NB    SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             133      120       110   167
Average Queue (ft)              45        39       41    63
95th Queue (ft)                107        84      107   140
Link Distance (ft)             478      366       104   253
Upstream Blk Time (%)                               0     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                               2     1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB   SB     SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR    L     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             124       64       100   46    121
Average Queue (ft)              33       16        13    8     34
95th Queue (ft)                114       46        59   34    130
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0                        0     7
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                        0    38
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)            12        1         0     0    8
Queuing Penalty (veh)            2        0         0     0    1




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 6
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                                       08/10/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB    WB     NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T     R     L      T      T    TR     L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      789       789   300   339    630    630   357   321   400   572     250
Average Queue (ft)             197      550       527   118   236    355    338   207   210   328   441     216
95th Queue (ft)                273      877       863   333   393    769    763   337   328   475   673     312
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772                923    923                     556
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     3         3                  1      1                       8
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    26        22                  4      5                      93
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                      200   200                 215   250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            53       45        30          41     12     11    10     5    12    47      14
Queuing Penalty (veh)          357       99        35         172     22     59    45    33    81   349     126

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             292      375       200
Average Queue (ft)             159      232       140
95th Queue (ft)                293      400       241
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     8
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    48
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                125
Storage Blk Time (%)            12       33         6
Queuing Penalty (veh)           62      141        20

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB   WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T        TR     L      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             249      360       360   150    527    554    63   234   149
Average Queue (ft)             151      115       102    35    172    188    19    93    51
95th Queue (ft)                248      292       262    98    421    450    51   183   114
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923         1801   1801   560   362
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                      150                             100
Storage Blk Time (%)            16         2                   10                  18     1
Queuing Penalty (veh)          117         4                    3                  13     0




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 7
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                               Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                                                                    08/10/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                       EB        WB        NB    SB
Directions Served            ULTR       LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             46         64      171    51
Average Queue (ft)              7         21       41    13
95th Queue (ft)                30         53      108    40
Link Distance (ft)            379       883       362   102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB      WB        WB    NB     NB   B20   B20   SB      SB
Directions Served              LTR       LT         R    L     TR     T          L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             178       39        56   41     13   332   292   56       4
Average Queue (ft)              66       11        19   10      1    81    34   15       0
95th Queue (ft)                135       35        47   33      6   288   177   44       3
Link Distance (ft)             847     1010                   263   251   251         1197
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                 1     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                 5     1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100                     100
Storage Blk Time (%)                                                              0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                             0

Intersection: 9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




Hales Engineering                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                        Page 8
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                        Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM                             08/10/2020

Intersection: 27: 300 East & Access 3
Movement                        SB
Directions Served                T
Maximum Queue (ft)              10
Average Queue (ft)               1
95th Queue (ft)                 14
Link Distance (ft)             904
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 29: Access 2 (egress)
Movement                       SW
Directions Served               LR
Maximum Queue (ft)             282
Average Queue (ft)              81
95th Queue (ft)                211
Link Distance (ft)             375
Upstream Blk Time (%)            1
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1989




Hales Engineering                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                 Page 9
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12200 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand            Volume Served                     Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume          Avg           %                     Avg          LOS
             L          202          197          98                      3.6          A
             T          294          291          99                      3.8          A
   NB
            R            23           23          100                     3.5          A
          Subtotal      519          511          98                      3.7          A
             L           10           10          98                      8.8          A
             T          267          264          99                      8.1          A
   SB
            R            34           34          100                     7.8          A
          Subtotal      311          308          99                      8.1          A
             L           16           16          102                     5.3          A
             T           49           49          101                    13.7          B
   EB
            R           140          142          102                    12.0          B
          Subtotal      205          207          101                    11.9          B
             L          144          143          99                      6.9          A
             T           83           82          99                      4.6          A
   WB
            R            6             6          96                      8.0          A
          Subtotal      233          231          99                      6.1          A
  Total                1,268        1,257         99                      6.6          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
            T          647           642         99                      2.5           A
            R           49           50          103                     2.0           A
   NB
                Subtotal       696           692            99            2.5          A
                   L            13           12             91           10.6          B
                   T           557           558            100           4.3          A
    SB
                Subtotal       570           570            100           4.4          A
                   L            31           30             97           67.1          F
                   R            19            20            107          26.8          D
   WB
                Subtotal        50            50            100          51.0          F




  Total                       1,316         1,312           100           5.2          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
             L          474          457          96                      81.5          F
             T          390          390          100                     72.1          E
   NB
            R           270          276          102                     53.7          D
          Subtotal     1,134        1,123         99                      71.4          E
             L          136          135          99                     122.9          F
             T          189          191          101                     78.8          E
   SB
            R           293          292          100                     18.4          B
          Subtotal      618          618          100                     59.9          E
             L          219          214          98                      98.0          F
             T         1,342        1,329         99                      46.6          D
   EB
            R           114          113          99                      22.3          C
          Subtotal     1,675        1,656         99                      51.6          D
             L          180          172          96                     163.7          F
             T         1,276        1,277         100                     20.9          C
   WB
            R            88           89          101                     18.4          B
          Subtotal     1,544        1,538         100                     36.7          D
  Total                4,972        4,935         99                      53.0          D


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                       Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %                       Avg          LOS
            L           5            4          80                       57.6          E
            R          16           17          108                      17.1          B
   NB
                Subtotal        21            21            100          24.8          C
                   L            82            80            98           68.3          E
                  R             74            80            108          20.4          C
    SB
                Subtotal       156           160            103          44.4          D
                   L           233           223            96           39.5          D
                   T          1,484         1,475           99            9.2          A
    EB
                  R             33            38            115           7.5          A
                Subtotal      1,750         1,736           99           13.1          B
                   L            34            34            100          57.8          E
                   T          1,464         1,462           100          17.8          B
   WB
                  R            131           132            101          18.6          B
                Subtotal      1,629         1,628           100          18.7          B
  Total                       3,556         3,545           100          17.2          B
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
             L          325          314         97                      5.0           A
             T           33          37          112                     2.6           A
   NB
            R            6            6          96                      5.4           A
          Subtotal      364          357         98                      4.8           A
             L           8            8          97                      2.8           A
             T           46          51          111                     3.4           A
   SB
                Subtotal        54            59            109           3.3          A
                   T            89            91            102           1.6          A
                  R             81            82            102           2.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal       170           173            102           1.8          A
                   L            9             8             86            3.4          A
                   T           120           123            103           2.7          A
   WB
                  R             1             2             200           4.5          A
                Subtotal       130           133            102           2.8          A
  Total                        799           804            101           3.4          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
             L           19          22          117                     6.1           A
             T          680          681         100                     2.8           A
   NB
            R            26          30          115                     1.2           A
          Subtotal      725          733         101                     2.8           A
             L           37          40          107                     9.7           A
             T          466          471         101                     2.8           A
   SB
            R           106          106         100                     1.3           A
          Subtotal      609          617         101                     3.0           A
                   L            73           71             97           36.9          E
                   T            5              5            100          33.9          D
   EB
                  R            20             22            111           5.2          A
                Subtotal       98             98            100          29.6          D
                   L            4              4            100          15.0          B
                   T            5              5            100          36.2          E
   WB
                  R            23             22            97           13.0          B
                Subtotal       32             31            97           17.0          C
  Total                       1,464         1,479           101           5.0          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                        Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg             %                      Avg          LOS
            T         249          254           102                     0.5           A
    EB
                Subtotal       249           254            102           0.5          A
                   T           182           180            99           0.8           A
                   R           480           474            99            3.7          A
   WB
                Subtotal       662           654            99            2.9          A




  Total                        911           908            100           2.2          A


Intersection:     300 East & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                       Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                       Avg          LOS
            T          314         311          99                       0.8           A
   NB
                Subtotal       314           311            99            0.8          A
                   T           310           308            99           1.5           A
   SB
                Subtotal       310           308            99            1.5          A




  Total                        625           619            99            1.2          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     Access 2 (egress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
            T          15            14          92                      0.8           A
   NW
                Subtotal        15            14            93            0.8          A
                   T            89            90            101           0.9          A
    SE
                Subtotal        89            90            101           0.9          A
                   L           138           143           104           16.0          C
                   R           182           183            101          14.3          B
   SW
                Subtotal       320           326            102          15.0          B




  Total                        424           430            101          11.7          B
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                                                      08/10/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR    NBL      NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2       0.2       0.2     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0       0.2       0.5     0.3    0.1    0.0    0.2      0.3     0.0    0.0    0.6      0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               5.3     13.7      12.0      6.9    4.6    8.0    3.6      3.8     3.5    8.8    8.1      7.8
Vehicles Entered                 17        49      143     143      82      6   197      291       23     10   265        34
Vehicles Exited                  16        49      142     143      82      6   197      291       23     10   264        34
Hourly Exit Rate                 16        49      142     143      82      6   197      291       23     10   264        34
Input Volume                     16        49      140     144      83      6   202      294       23     10   267        34
% of Volume                    102       101       102       99     99     96     98       99    100      98     99     100

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)                2.3
Total Del/Veh (s)               6.6
Vehicles Entered              1260
Vehicles Exited               1257
Hourly Exit Rate              1257
Input Volume                  1268
% of Volume                      99

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR     SBL    SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.2       4.1       0.0      0.0    0.6    0.2     0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.6       0.1       0.4      0.0    0.0    0.7     1.9
Total Del/Veh (s)             67.1     26.8        2.5      2.0   10.6    4.3     5.2
Vehicles Entered                31        20      641        50     12   557    1311
Vehicles Exited                 30        20      642        50     12   558    1312
Hourly Exit Rate                30        20      642        50     12   558    1312
Input Volume                    31        19      647        49     13   557    1316
% of Volume                     97      107         99     103      91   100     100




Hales Engineering                                                                                              801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                      Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                              Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                                                              08/10/2020

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT       SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.5     0.9       0.1
Total Delay (hr)                 6.1    17.5        0.7      8.3      7.5     0.5   10.8      8.1     4.2      4.7     4.3       1.5
Total Del/Veh (s)              98.0     46.6      22.3    163.7     20.9    18.4    81.5    72.1    53.7    122.9    78.8      18.4
Vehicles Entered                217    1335        114      178    1279        89    461     393     277      135     193       292
Vehicles Exited                 214    1329        113      172    1277        89    457     390     276      135     191       292
Hourly Exit Rate                214    1329        113      172    1277        89    457     390     276      135     191       292
Input Volume                    219    1342        114      180    1276        88    474     390     270      136     189       293
% of Volume                       98      99         99       96     100     101       96    100     102        99    101       100

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1
Total Delay (hr)               74.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              53.0
Vehicles Entered              4963
Vehicles Exited               4935
Hourly Exit Rate              4935
Input Volume                  4972
% of Volume                      99

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR     NBL     NBR     SBL      SBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0     0.7       0.1     0.2    0.1      0.1    0.0       0.6      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                 2.5     3.8        0.1     0.5       7.3     0.7    0.1      0.1    1.6       0.5    17.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              39.5      9.2        7.5   57.8      17.8    18.6    57.6    17.1    68.3     20.4     17.2
Vehicles Entered                225    1477          38      34    1463      133       4       17     80        80   3551
Vehicles Exited                 223    1475          38      34    1462      132       4       17     80        80   3545
Hourly Exit Rate                223    1475          38      34    1462      132       4       17     80        80   3545
Input Volume                    233    1484          33      34    1464      131       5       16     82        74   3556
% of Volume                       96      99       115     100       100     101      80     108      98      108      100




Hales Engineering                                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                            Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                                                      08/10/2020

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBU       EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.1    0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.1     0.0    0.4    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.8
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.0      1.6        2.1    3.4      2.7     4.5    5.0    2.6    5.4     2.8    3.4     3.4
Vehicles Entered                 83       90         82      8     123        2   314      36      6       8     51    803
Vehicles Exited                  82       91         82      8     123        2   314      37      6       8     51    804
Hourly Exit Rate                 82       91         82      8     123        2   314      37      6       8     51    804
Input Volume                     81       89         81      9     120        1   325      33      6       8     46    799
% of Volume                    102      102        102      86     103     200      97   112      96      97   111     101

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.1      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1       0.1       1.2     0.3     0.2    3.4     0.0    0.0     0.0    2.9    0.6      0.6
Total Delay (hr)                0.7       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.1    0.1     0.0    0.5     0.0    0.1    0.4      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              36.9     33.9        5.2   15.0    36.2    13.0     6.1    2.8     1.2    9.7    2.8      1.3
Vehicles Entered                 71         5        22       4       5     22      22   681       30     40   471      106
Vehicles Exited                  71         5        22       4       5     22      22   681       30     40   471      106
Hourly Exit Rate                 71         5        22       4       5     22      22   681       30     40   471      106
Input Volume                     73         5        20       4       5     23      19   680       26     37   466      106
% of Volume                      97      100       111     100     100      97    117    100     115    107    101      100

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4
Total Delay (hr)                2.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               5.0
Vehicles Entered              1479
Vehicles Exited               1479
Hourly Exit Rate              1479
Input Volume                  1464
% of Volume                    101




Hales Engineering                                                                                              801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                      Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                   Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                            08/10/2020

9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress) Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT     WBT        WBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.2      0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.1        1.5      0.8
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.5      0.6
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.5      0.8        3.7      2.2
Vehicles Entered               254      180        474      908
Vehicles Exited                254      180        474      908
Hourly Exit Rate               254      180        474      908
Input Volume                   249      182        480      911
% of Volume                    102        99         99     100

27: 300 East & Access 3 Performance by movement
Movement                       NBT      SBT          All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.3        0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.1      0.1        0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.8      1.5        1.2
Vehicles Entered               312      308        620
Vehicles Exited                311      308        619
Hourly Exit Rate               311      308        619
Input Volume                   314      310        625
% of Volume                      99       99         99

29: Access 2 (egress) Performance by movement
Movement                       SET     NWT        SWL      SWR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0         0.1       0.1     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0     0.0         1.4       1.4     1.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0         0.6       0.7     1.4
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.9     0.8       16.0      14.3    11.7
Vehicles Entered                 90      14        144       183     431
Vehicles Exited                  90      14        143       183     430
Hourly Exit Rate                 90      14        143       183     430
Input Volume                     89      15        138       182     424
% of Volume                    101       92        104       101     101




Hales Engineering                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                            Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                  Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                           08/10/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                     0.7
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                    1.1
Total Delay (hr)                                   104.2
Total Del/Veh (s)                                    56.3
Vehicles Entered                                    2270
Vehicles Exited                                     6458
Hourly Exit Rate                                    6458
Input Volume                                      22745
% of Volume                                            28




Hales Engineering                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                           Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                   08/10/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       WB        NB    SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             150      140       106   151
Average Queue (ft)              48        43       37    58
95th Queue (ft)                147        98       99   133
Link Distance (ft)             478      366       104   253
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0                  0     1
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                  2     2
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB   SB     SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR    L     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              99       51        98   50    100
Average Queue (ft)              36       16        10    8     22
95th Queue (ft)                117       45        57   34    106
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0                        0     5
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                        0    31
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)            12        1         1     0    6
Queuing Penalty (veh)            2        0         0     0    1




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 6
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                                           08/10/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB    WB     NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T     R     L      T      T    TR     L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             314      692       686   300   415    549    531   283   318   400   569     250
Average Queue (ft)             224      424       410   117   257    222    189   138   199   338   478     218
95th Queue (ft)                366      754       736   336   445    535    483   246   316   487   680     317
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772                923    923                     556
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     1         1                  0      0                       8
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    10         9                  0      0                      94
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                      200   300                 215   250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            19       31        26          20      0      2     1     4    11    47      16
Queuing Penalty (veh)          129       69        30          87      0     10     4    26    70   348     138

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             272      349       258
Average Queue (ft)             161      213       142
95th Queue (ft)                286      375       281
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     6
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    37
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                200
Storage Blk Time (%)            18       16         1
Queuing Penalty (veh)           87       70         3

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB   WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T        TR     L      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             244      341       248    92    311    327    58   195   148
Average Queue (ft)             133       57        43    29    135    144    18    86    53
95th Queue (ft)                227      202       148    69    260    273    47   163   115
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923         1801   1801   560   362
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                               0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                               0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                      150                             100
Storage Blk Time (%)             7         0                    8                  12     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)           51         0                    3                   9     0




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 7
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                               Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                                                           08/10/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                       EB        WB        NB     SB
Directions Served            ULTR       LTR       LTR    LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             40         64      164     56
Average Queue (ft)              8         21       51     18
95th Queue (ft)                31         53      125     47
Link Distance (ft)            379       883       362    102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       EB        WB    WB    NB     NB   B20   B20   SB      SB
Directions Served               LT        R         LT     R    L     TR     T          L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             127       37         42    43   35      4   321   276   52       6
Average Queue (ft)              52       17          8    16    9      0    69    23   14       0
95th Queue (ft)                105       42         32    42   30      3   258   140   38       4
Link Distance (ft)             847                1010               253   251   251         1197
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                        1     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                        4     1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                   100              100   100                     100
Storage Blk Time (%)              4                                                      0
Queuing Penalty (veh)             1                                                      0

Intersection: 9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 8
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                        Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated                 08/10/2020

Intersection: 27: 300 East & Access 3
Movement                        SB
Directions Served                T
Maximum Queue (ft)              36
Average Queue (ft)               3
95th Queue (ft)                 49
Link Distance (ft)             904
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 29: Access 2 (egress)
Movement                       SW
Directions Served               LR
Maximum Queue (ft)             376
Average Queue (ft)              93
95th Queue (ft)                265
Link Distance (ft)             375
Upstream Blk Time (%)            3
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1331




Hales Engineering                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                 Page 9
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     300 East & 12200 South
Type:             Roundabout
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L          214          211         99            2.7           A
            T          308          305         99            2.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       522         516        99       2.8          A
                   T           282         272        96       4.4          A
                  R             36         38         105      3.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal       318         310        97       4.3          A
                   L            17         16         96       4.4          A
                  R            148         147        99       3.8          A
    EB
                Subtotal       165         163        99       3.9          A




  Total                       1,006        989        98       3.5          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %           Avg          LOS
            T          662           650         98           2.3           A
            R           52           51          99           1.8           A
   NB
                Subtotal       714         701        98       2.3          A
                   L            14         14         98      11.9          B
                   T           417         405        97       3.9          A
    SB
                Subtotal       431         419        97       4.2          A
                   L           33           32        97      47.3          E
                   R           20           20        101     20.8          C
   WB
                Subtotal       53           52        98      37.1          E




  Total                       1,197        1,172      98       4.5          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L          502          504          100          78.6          E
             T          410          406          99           73.3          E
   NB
            R           264          253          96           50.8          D
          Subtotal     1,176        1,163         99           70.7          E
             L          144          136          95          126.3          F
             T          183          181          99           82.5          F
   SB
            R           175          173          99           21.3          C
          Subtotal      502          490          98           73.0          E
             L          211          208          99          147.4          F
             T         1,240        1,227         99           62.0          E
   EB
            R           121          120          99           33.3          C
          Subtotal     1,572        1,555         99           71.2          E
             L          191          183          96          171.4          F
             T         1,352        1,336         99           41.1          D
   WB
            R            93           90          97           38.5          D
          Subtotal     1,636        1,609         98           55.8          E
  Total                4,886        4,817         99           66.5          E


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served            Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %            Avg          LOS
            L           5            4          80            40.1          D
            R          17           17          101           20.5          C
   NB
                Subtotal       22           21        95      24.2          C
                   L           2             1        50      69.2          E
                  R            78           84        108     27.8          C
    SB
                Subtotal       80            85       106     28.3          C
                   L           42            42       99      66.4          E
                   T          1,571        1,547      98      24.3          C
    EB
                  R            35            38       109     19.4          B
                Subtotal      1,648        1,627      99      25.3          C
                   L           36            36       99      87.9          F
                   T          1,552        1,542      99      33.1          C
   WB
                  R            12            12       98      34.5          C
                Subtotal      1,600        1,590      99      34.4          C
  Total                       3,350        3,323      99      29.7          C
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                  Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L          13           12          91           2.5           A
             T          35           35          100          1.6           A
   NB
            R           6             7          112          2.6           A
          Subtotal      54           54          100          1.9           A
             L          8             8          97           1.4           A
             T          49           53          109          1.7           A
   SB
                Subtotal       57           61        107      1.7          A
                  R            1             1        100      1.9          A
    EB
                Subtotal        1           1         100      1.9          A
                   L            10         11         107      1.8          A
                   T            34         34         99       0.3          A
   WB
                  R             1           2         200      1.7          A
                Subtotal        45         47         104      0.7          A
  Total                        158         163        103      1.5          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L           20          20          101          5.6           A
             T          722          712         99           3.1           A
   NB
            R            28          28          100          2.9           A
          Subtotal      770          760         99           3.2           A
             L           39          40          102          5.8           A
             T          494          492         100          0.8           A
   SB
            R            21          21          101          0.6           A
          Subtotal      554          553         100          1.2           A
                   L           16           15        95      14.2          B
                   T            5             5       100     20.9          C
   EB
                  R            21            20       96       6.1          A
                Subtotal       42            40       95      11.0          B
                   L            4             3       75      12.4          B
                   T            5             5       100     16.2          C
   WB
                  R            24            25       105      5.6          A
                Subtotal       33            33       100      7.8          A
  Total                       1,398        1,386      99       2.7          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                              Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                                               05/11/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL     EBR        NBL      NBT     SBT     SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.2       0.0      0.0     0.3      0.3     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.2       0.2      0.3     0.3      0.0     1.0
Total Del/Veh (s)               4.4      3.8       2.7      2.9     4.4      3.7     3.5
Vehicles Entered                 16     147       212      305     272        38    990
Vehicles Exited                  16     147       211      305     272        38    989
Hourly Exit Rate                 16     147       211      305     272        38    989
Input Volume                     17     148       214      308     282        36   1006
% of Volume                      96       99        99       99      96     105       98

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.1       4.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.4       0.1       0.4     0.0      0.0     0.4      1.5
Total Del/Veh (s)             47.3     20.8        2.3     1.8     11.9     3.9      4.5
Vehicles Entered                33        20      651       52       14    406     1176
Vehicles Exited                 32        20      650       51       14    405     1172
Hourly Exit Rate                32        20      650       51       14    405     1172
Input Volume                    33        20      662       52       14    417     1197
% of Volume                     97      101         98      99       98      97       98

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBL       EBT       EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.1     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.0      0.1     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      1.3     1.7     2.0
Total Delay (hr)                9.1     21.9        1.1      9.3    15.5    1.0    11.2       8.4     3.6      4.9     4.2     1.0
Total Del/Veh (s)            147.4      62.0      33.3    171.4     41.1   38.5    78.6     73.3    50.8    126.3    82.5    21.3
Vehicles Entered               215     1246        120      191    1350      91     503      408     253      136     183     173
Vehicles Exited                208     1227        120      183    1336      90     504      406     253      136     181     173
Hourly Exit Rate               208     1227        120      183    1336      90     504      406     253      136     181     173
Input Volume                   211     1240        121      191    1352      93     502      410     264      144     183     175
% of Volume                      99       99         99       96      99     97     100        99      96       95      99      99

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2
Total Delay (hr)               91.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              66.5
Vehicles Entered              4869
Vehicles Exited               4817
Hourly Exit Rate              4817
Input Volume                  4886
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                            Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                            Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                                             05/11/2020

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBR     SBL     SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.1    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.0    0.9      0.2    0.3     0.1      0.1    0.0      1.0     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.8     10.5        0.2    0.9     14.6    0.1     0.0      0.1    0.0      0.6    27.9
Total Del/Veh (s)              66.4     24.3      19.4    87.9     33.1   34.5    40.1    20.5    69.2    27.8     29.7
Vehicles Entered                 42    1537          37     36    1544      12       4       17      1       83   3313
Vehicles Exited                  42    1547          38     36    1542      12       4       17      1       84   3323
Hourly Exit Rate                 42    1547          38     36    1542      12       4       17      1       84   3323
Input Volume                     42    1571          35     36    1552      12       5       17      2       78   3350
% of Volume                      99       98       109      99       99     98      80     101      50     108       99

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.1     0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.9      1.8       0.3      1.7    2.5     1.6      2.6    1.4     1.7     1.5
Vehicles Entered                  1       11        34        2     12      35        7      8      53    163
Vehicles Exited                   1       11        34        2     12      35        7      8      53    163
Hourly Exit Rate                  1       11        34        2     12      35        7      8      53    163
Input Volume                      1       10        34        1     13      35        6      8      49    158
% of Volume                    100      107         99     200      91    100      112      97    109     103

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1       0.1      0.1     0.2      0.1     3.4    0.0     0.0      0.0    2.9     0.3       0.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.1       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     0.6      0.0    0.1     0.1       0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              14.2     20.9       6.1    12.4    16.2      5.6    5.6     3.1      2.9    5.8     0.8       0.6
Vehicles Entered                 15         5       20       3        5      25     20    712        28     39    492         21
Vehicles Exited                  15         5       20       3        5      25     20    712        28     40    492         21
Hourly Exit Rate                 15         5       20       3        5      25     20    712        28     40    492         21
Input Volume                     16         5       21       4        5      24     20    722        28     39    494         21
% of Volume                      95      100        96      75     100     105    101       99     100    102     100       101

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2
Total Delay (hr)                1.0
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.7
Vehicles Entered              1385
Vehicles Exited               1386
Hourly Exit Rate              1386
Input Volume                  1398
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                                 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                         Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                  Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                              05/11/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                     0.5
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                    1.1
Total Delay (hr)                                   124.6
Total Del/Veh (s)                                    76.6
Vehicles Entered                                    1567
Vehicles Exited                                     5638
Hourly Exit Rate                                    5638
Input Volume                                      17558
% of Volume                                            32




Hales Engineering                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                           Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                      05/11/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       NB         SB
Directions Served               LR       LT         TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              81       88         99
Average Queue (ft)              24       11         37
95th Queue (ft)                 63       54         81
Link Distance (ft)             486      104       1200
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             100       58        72    57   117
Average Queue (ft)              32       16         4     8    25
95th Queue (ft)                 95       46        34    33   111
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0                        0     4
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                        0    18
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)            10        0         0     0    6
Queuing Penalty (veh)            2        0         0     1    1




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                              05/11/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB    WB     NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T     R     L      T      T    TR     L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      779       781   300   344    728    724   349   319   400   571     250
Average Queue (ft)             205      546       532   117   246    339    327   169   210   322   458     208
95th Queue (ft)                266      879       867   331   402    852    846   353   319   479   673     317
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772                923    923                     556
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     4         3                  1      1                       9
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    31        25                  7      7                     101
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                      200   200                 215   250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            68       47        32          41      9      9     9     5    11    49      10
Queuing Penalty (veh)          422       99        39         185     17     50    42    33    76   378      95

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             291      370       200
Average Queue (ft)             170      216       116
95th Queue (ft)                307      384       231
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     7
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    33
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                125
Storage Blk Time (%)            23       33         1
Queuing Penalty (veh)           82      106         3

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB   WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T        TR     L      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             189      566       572   234    655    646    60    78   129
Average Queue (ft)              45      218       225    65    330    353    14     3    51
95th Queue (ft)                130      483       492   193    607    616    44    34   103
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923         1800   1800   563   362
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                      150                             100
Storage Blk Time (%)             0       17               0    20                         3
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0        7               3     7                         0




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                       Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background                                                                   05/11/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                        WB       NB        SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)               9        9        12
Average Queue (ft)               0        0         1
95th Queue (ft)                  6        6         8
Link Distance (ft)             883      362       102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB      WB        WB    NB     NB   SB      SB
Directions Served              LTR       LT         R    L     TR    L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              63       33        52   38      8   42       3
Average Queue (ft)              25        8        19    8      0   11       0
95th Queue (ft)                 56       29        46   29      3   32       3
Link Distance (ft)             835      998                   571         1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100         100
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1872




Hales Engineering                                                                        801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                Page 6
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                      Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     300 East & 12200 South
Type:             Roundabout
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L          214          220         103               2.6           A
            T          308          308         100               2.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       522          528           101      2.8          A
                   T           282          278           98       4.4          A
                  R             36          35            97       4.5          A
    SB
                Subtotal       318          313           98       4.4          A
                   L            17          17            101      3.2          A
                  R            148          149           101      2.9          A
    EB
                Subtotal       165          166           101      2.9          A




  Total                       1,006         1,007         100      3.3          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %               Avg          LOS
            T          662           667         101              2.3           A
            R           52           52          100              1.8           A
   NB
                Subtotal       714          719           101      2.3          A
                   L            14          12            84       7.6          A
                   T           417          415           100      0.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal       431          427            99      0.8          A
                   L           33            32           97      19.9          C
                   R            20           20           101     10.3          B
   WB
                Subtotal        53           52            98     16.2          C




  Total                       1,197         1,198         100      2.4          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                      Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
             L          502          490          98              69.2          E
             T          410          412          100             69.2          E
   NB
            R           264          259          98              29.3          C
          Subtotal     1,176        1,161         99              60.3          E
             L          144          136          95              82.1          F
             T          183          186          102             63.9          E
   SB
            R           175          175          100             19.0          B
          Subtotal      502          497          99              53.1          D
             L          211          212          100             71.3          E
             T         1,240        1,233         99              33.3          C
   EB
            R           121          122          101             22.4          C
          Subtotal     1,572        1,567         100             37.6          D
             L          191          197          103             95.9          F
             T         1,352        1,355         100             28.6          C
   WB
            R            93           96          103             27.1          C
          Subtotal     1,636        1,648         101             36.6          D
  Total                4,886        4,873         100             44.2          D


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            L           5            4          80                36.2          D
            R          17           18          107                9.7          A
   NB
                Subtotal        22           22           100     14.5          B
                   L            2             1           50      83.6          F
                  R             78           80           103     13.1          B
    SB
                Subtotal       80             81          101     14.0          B
                   L           42             41          97      33.5          C
                   T          1,571         1,555         99       8.6          A
    EB
                  R            35             34          97       5.3          A
                Subtotal      1,648         1,630         99       9.2          A
                   L           36             34          94      29.9          C
                   T          1,552         1,560         101      8.6          A
   WB
                  R            12             13          106      6.3          A
                Subtotal      1,600         1,607         100      9.0          A
  Total                       3,350         3,340         100      9.2          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background - Mitigated
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                      Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          13           13          98               2.2           A
             T          35           37          106              1.5           A
   NB
            R           6             5          80               2.3           A
          Subtotal      54           55          102              1.7           A
             L          8             9          109              1.3           A
             T          49           51          105              1.7           A
   SB
                Subtotal        57           60           105      1.6          A
                  R             1             1           100      1.4          A
    EB
                Subtotal        1            1            100      1.4          A
                   L            10          10            98       1.9          A
                   T            34          37            108      0.3          A
   WB
                  R             1            1            100      1.6          A
                Subtotal        45          48            107      0.7          A
  Total                        158          164           104      1.4          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L           20          20          101               5.4          A
             T          722          723         100               3.0          A
   NB
            R            28          29          104               2.9          A
          Subtotal      770          772         100               3.1          A
             L           39          38          97                5.6          A
             T          494          497         101               0.9          A
   SB
            R            21          23          111               0.7          A
          Subtotal      554          558         101               1.2          A
             L           16          18          114              16.5          C
             T           5            5          100              16.2          C
   EB
            R            21          20          96                5.4          A
          Subtotal       42          43          102              11.3          B
                   L            4            3            75      21.5          C
                   T            5              5          100     18.9          C
   WB
                  R            24             25          105      6.0          A
                Subtotal       33             33          100      9.4          A
  Total                       1,398         1,406         101      2.7          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                              Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                                                                  05/08/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBR       NBL     NBT     SBT      SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2       0.2      0.0     0.0     0.3      0.2      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0       0.1      0.2     0.3     0.3      0.0      0.9
Total Del/Veh (s)               3.2       2.9      2.6     2.9     4.4      4.5      3.3
Vehicles Entered                 17      149      220     307     279        34    1006
Vehicles Exited                  17      149      220     308     278        35    1007
Hourly Exit Rate                 17      149      220     308     278        35    1007
Input Volume                     17      148      214     308     282        36    1006
% of Volume                    101       101      103     100       98       97     100

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL       WBR       NBT     NBR     SBL      SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.2        4.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.2        0.1      0.4      0.0    0.0      0.1      0.8
Total Del/Veh (s)             19.9      10.3       2.3      1.8    7.6      0.6      2.4
Vehicles Entered                32         20     668        52     12     415     1199
Vehicles Exited                 32         20     667        52     12     415     1198
Hourly Exit Rate                32         20     667        52     12     415     1198
Input Volume                    33         20     662        52     14     417     1197
% of Volume                     97       101      101      100      84     100      100

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL       EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.1     0.5     0.8
Total Delay (hr)                 4.3     11.6       0.8     5.4    11.0      0.7     9.5      8.0     2.1     3.2     3.3     0.9
Total Del/Veh (s)              71.3      33.3     22.4    95.9     28.6    27.1    69.2     69.2    29.3    82.1    63.9    19.0
Vehicles Entered                212     1237       122     197    1352        96    491      411     259     138     186     175
Vehicles Exited                 212     1233       122     197    1355        96    490      412     259     136     186     175
Hourly Exit Rate                212     1233       122     197    1355        96    490      412     259     136     186     175
Input Volume                    211     1240       121     191    1352        93    502      410     264     144     183     175
% of Volume                     100        99      101     103      100     103       98     100       98      95    102     100

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                          All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.1
Total Delay (hr)               60.8
Total Del/Veh (s)              44.2
Vehicles Entered              4876
Vehicles Exited               4873
Hourly Exit Rate              4873
Input Volume                  4886
% of Volume                     100


Hales Engineering                                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                           Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                           Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                                                                05/08/2020

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBR     SBL     SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0       0.0     0.7      0.0     0.1    0.1     0.1    0.0      1.0     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.4      3.7       0.1     0.3      3.8     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.3     8.7
Total Del/Veh (s)              33.5      8.6       5.3    29.9      8.6     6.3   36.2     9.7   83.6    13.1      9.2
Vehicles Entered                 41    1554         34      33    1562       14      4      18      1       80   3341
Vehicles Exited                  41    1555         34      34    1560       13      4      18      1       80   3340
Hourly Exit Rate                 41    1555         34      34    1560       13      4      18      1       80   3340
Input Volume                     42    1571         35      36    1552       12      5      17      2       78   3350
% of Volume                      97       99        97      94     101     106      80    107      50     103     100

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.1     0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.4     1.9         0.3     1.6    2.2     1.5     2.3    1.3     1.7     1.4
Vehicles Entered                  1      10          36       1     13      37       5      9      51    163
Vehicles Exited                   1      10          37       1     13      37       5      9      51    164
Hourly Exit Rate                  1      10          37       1     13      37       5      9      51    164
Input Volume                      1      10          34       1     13      35       6      8      49    158
% of Volume                    100       98        108     100      98    106       80   109     105     104

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     3.4    0.0    0.0      0.0    2.9     0.2       0.2
Total Delay (hr)                 0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.6      0.0    0.1     0.1       0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              16.5     16.2       5.4    21.5    18.9      6.0    5.4    3.0      2.9    5.6     0.9       0.7
Vehicles Entered                  18        5       20       3        5      25     20   723        29     37    496         23
Vehicles Exited                   18        5       20       3        5      25     20   723        29     38    497         23
Hourly Exit Rate                  18        5       20       3        5      25     20   723        29     38    497         23
Input Volume                      16        5       21       4        5      24     20   722        28     39    494         21
% of Volume                     114      100        96      75     100     105    101    100      104      97    101       111

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2
Total Delay (hr)                1.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.7
Vehicles Entered              1404
Vehicles Exited               1406
Hourly Exit Rate              1406
Input Volume                  1398
% of Volume                    101


Hales Engineering                                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                        Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                 Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                 05/08/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    0.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   0.6
Total Delay (hr)                                    74.4
Total Del/Veh (s)                                   45.6
Vehicles Entered                                   1576
Vehicles Exited                                    5717
Hourly Exit Rate                                   5717
Input Volume                                      17558
% of Volume                                           33




Hales Engineering                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                          Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                          05/08/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       NB         SB
Directions Served               LR       LT         TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              61       76         94
Average Queue (ft)              20        9         37
95th Queue (ft)                 52       46         81
Link Distance (ft)             486      104       1200
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              69       48        51    34    51
Average Queue (ft)              25       16         2     6     3
95th Queue (ft)                 58       44        24    26    32
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                           0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                           1
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)              3       0         0     0    1
Queuing Penalty (veh)             1       0         0     1    0




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                                                   05/08/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB    WB     WB     WB      NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L     T      T     TR      L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      556       519   372   308   347    340    329    320   400   574     250
Average Queue (ft)             184      295       267   213   176   154    152    167    181   318   467     193
95th Queue (ft)                268      499       455   352   300   304    282    289    292   486   675     331
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772   772         923    923    923                555
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0         0                                                  8
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0         0                                                 97
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                            200                        250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            31       34                    17     2                    3     7    48       1
Queuing Penalty (veh)          130       73                    81     5                   20    50   365       7

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             298      349       200
Average Queue (ft)             143      180       107
95th Queue (ft)                252      313       214
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     1
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     4
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                125
Storage Blk Time (%)             4       25         2
Queuing Penalty (veh)           13       80         6

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L      T      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              61      243       314   132    68    168    318    173    54    18    91
Average Queue (ft)              23       61        65    38    23     65     70     85    16     2    40
95th Queue (ft)                 53      171       204   103    54    134    255    152    44    13    75
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923   923         1800   1800   1800   551   350
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0         0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0         0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                            150                                    100
Storage Blk Time (%)                       0                          0                                0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                      0                          0                                0




Hales Engineering                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                            Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                       Morning Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background - Mitigated                                                       05/08/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                          WB     NB        SB
Directions Served                LTR    LTR       LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)                 3     12        18
Average Queue (ft)                 0      0         1
95th Queue (ft)                    3      6         9
Link Distance (ft)               883    350       102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                          EB    WB        WB    NB     NB   SB      SB
Directions Served                LTR     LT         R    L     TR    L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)                61     35        52   36      6   48       1
Average Queue (ft)                25      8        18    6      0   11       0
95th Queue (ft)                   54     30        46   26      3   33       1
Link Distance (ft)               835    998                   568         1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100         100
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 932




Hales Engineering                                                                        801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                Page 6
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12200 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume          Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          214          209          98               3.9           A
             T          311          303          97               4.1           A
   NB
            R            23           26          113              3.9           A
          Subtotal      548          538          98               4.0           A
             L           10           12          117              7.6           A
             T          283          280          99               5.7           A
   SB
            R            36           35          97               6.2           A
          Subtotal      329          327          99               5.8           A
             L           17           17          101              4.7           A
             T           49           47          96               5.2           A
   EB
            R           148          150          101              4.4           A
          Subtotal      214          214          100              4.6           A
             L          144          142          99               6.3           A
             T           84           88          105              4.0           A
   WB
            R            6             7          112              6.2           A
          Subtotal      234          237          101              5.4           A
  Total                1,325        1,316         99               4.8           A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          684           672         98                2.8           A
            R           52           52          100               2.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       736           724             98     2.8          A
                   L            14           14              98     7.0          A
                   T           582           579             100    1.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal       596           593             99     1.8          A
                   L            33           35              106   26.6          D
                   R            20           18              91    13.0          B
   WB
                Subtotal        53           53              100   22.0          C




  Total                       1,384         1,370            99     3.1          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          502          499          99               66.8          E
             T          413          404          98               64.9          E
   NB
            R           285          281          99               29.3          C
          Subtotal     1,200        1,184         99               57.3          E
             L          144          143          99               91.5          F
             T          199          206          104              65.7          E
   SB
            R           303          297          98               22.1          C
          Subtotal      646          646          100              51.4          D
             L          231          223          97               86.4          F
             T         1,412        1,397         99               38.0          D
   EB
            R           121          120          99               24.6          C
          Subtotal     1,764        1,740         99               43.3          D
             L          191          190          99               94.1          F
             T         1,352        1,342         99               27.5          C
   WB
            R            93          100          108              27.5          C
          Subtotal     1,636        1,632         100              35.3          D
  Total                5,246        5,202         99               45.1          D


Intersection:     450 East & 12300 South
Type:             Signalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume        Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
            L           5            6          120                68.6          E
            R          17           17          101                13.4          B
   NB
                Subtotal        22           23              105   27.8          C
                   L            82           83              102   66.9          E
                  R             78           75              96    10.5          B
    SB
                Subtotal       160           158             99    40.1          D
                   L           235           236             101   37.6          D
                   T          1,571         1,550            99     8.7          A
    EB
                  R             35            35             100    6.4          A
                Subtotal      1,841         1,821            99    12.4          B
                   L            36            35             97    29.3          C
                   T          1,552         1,546            100   10.5          B
   WB
                  R            132           136             103    9.6          A
                Subtotal      1,720         1,717            100   10.8          B
  Total                       3,743         3,719            99    12.9          B
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L          326          328         101               4.6           A
             T           35          37          106               2.4           A
   NB
            R            6            6          96                4.6           A
          Subtotal      367          371         101               4.4           A
             L           8            8          97                2.8           A
             T           49          47          96                3.0           A
   SB
                Subtotal        57           55              96     3.0          A
                   T            89           95              106    1.6          A
                  R             81           82              102    2.1          A
    EB
                Subtotal       170           177             104    1.8          A
                   L            10           11              107    3.9          A
                   T           120           114             95     2.7          A
   WB
                  R             1             1              100    3.1          A
                Subtotal       131           126             96     2.8          A
  Total                        806           810             100    3.3          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L           20          19          96                7.1           A
             T          722          725         100               3.0           A
   NB
            R            28          27          96                2.9           A
          Subtotal      770          771         100               3.1           A
             L           39          40          102               6.2           A
             T          494          488         99                1.8           A
   SB
            R           107          103         96                1.1           A
          Subtotal      640          631         99                2.0           A
                   L            74           76              102   21.6          C
                   T            5              5             100   25.1          D
   EB
                  R             21            20             96     5.0          A
                Subtotal       100           101             101   18.5          C
                   L            4              3             75    24.9          C
                   T            5              5             100   21.1          C
   WB
                  R             24            24             101    6.5          A
                Subtotal        33            32             97    10.5          B
  Total                       1,542         1,535            100    3.8          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg             %                Avg          LOS
            T         249          256           103               0.5           A
    EB
                Subtotal       249           256             103    0.5          A
                   T           184          186              101   0.9           A
                   R           480           479             100    4.1          A
   WB
                Subtotal       664           665             100    3.2          A




  Total                        912           921             101    2.4          A


Intersection:     300 East & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
                   T           332          323              97    0.7           A
   NB
                Subtotal       332           323             97     0.7          A
                   T           328           326             99     0.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal       328           326             99     0.6          A




  Total                        660           649             98     0.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period:               Morning Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     Access 2 (egress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          16            16          102               0.8           A
   NW
                Subtotal        16           16              100    0.8          A
                   T            89           92              103    0.7          A
    SE
                Subtotal        89           92              103    0.7          A
                   L           138          140              101   17.5          C
                   R           182           187             103   16.5          C
   SW
                Subtotal       320           327             102   16.9          C




  Total                        425           435             102   12.9          B
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                            Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                                                    08/10/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.3      0.2        0.2     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.1        0.2     0.3     0.1     0.0    0.2      0.3     0.0    0.0    0.4     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               4.7      5.2        4.4     6.3     4.0     6.2    3.9      4.1     3.9    7.6    5.7     6.2
Vehicles Entered                 17       47       150     142       87       7   209      303       26     12   280       35
Vehicles Exited                  17       47       150     142       88       7   209      303       26     12   280       35
Hourly Exit Rate                 17       47       150     142       88       7   209      303       26     12   280       35
Input Volume                     17       49       148     144       84       6   214      311       23     10   283       36
% of Volume                    101        96       101       99    105     112      98       97    113    117      99      97

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)                1.8
Total Del/Veh (s)               4.8
Vehicles Entered              1315
Vehicles Exited               1316
Hourly Exit Rate              1316
Input Volume                  1325
% of Volume                      99

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2     4.2        0.0      0.0    0.1     0.1      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.3     0.1        0.5      0.0    0.0     0.3      1.2
Total Del/Veh (s)             26.6     13.0        2.8      2.2    7.0     1.7      3.1
Vehicles Entered                 34      18       672        52     14    579     1369
Vehicles Exited                  35      18       672        52     14    579     1370
Hourly Exit Rate                 35      18       672        52     14    579     1370
Input Volume                     33      20       684        52     14    582     1384
% of Volume                    106       91         98     100      98    100        99




Hales Engineering                                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                        Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                             Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                                                       08/10/2020

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT      SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.3     0.4      0.1
Total Delay (hr)                 5.5    14.9        0.8     5.1    10.3      0.8     9.6     7.5     2.3     3.8     3.8      1.8
Total Del/Veh (s)              86.4     38.0      24.6    94.1     27.5    27.5    66.8    64.9    29.3    91.5    65.7     22.1
Vehicles Entered                224    1399        121     191    1338        99    498     409     283     144     204      296
Vehicles Exited                 223    1397        120     190    1342      100     499     404     281     143     206      297
Hourly Exit Rate                223    1397        120     190    1342      100     499     404     281     143     206      297
Input Volume                    231    1412        121     191    1352        93    502     413     285     144     199      303
% of Volume                       97      99         99      99      99     108       99      98      99      99    104        98

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)               66.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              45.1
Vehicles Entered              5206
Vehicles Exited               5202
Hourly Exit Rate              5202
Input Volume                  5246
% of Volume                      99

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBR     SBL     SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0    0.7       0.0     0.1     0.1     0.1     0.0    0.5      0.0
Total Delay (hr)                 2.5     3.7        0.1    0.3       4.6     0.4     0.1     0.1     1.6    0.2     13.5
Total Del/Veh (s)              37.6      8.7        6.4   29.3     10.5      9.6   68.6    13.4    66.9    10.5     12.9
Vehicles Entered                236    1549          35     35    1552      136        6      17      83     76    3725
Vehicles Exited                 236    1550          35     35    1546      136        6      17      83     75    3719
Hourly Exit Rate                236    1550          35     35    1546      136        6      17      83     75    3719
Input Volume                    235    1571          35     36    1552      132        5      17      82     78    3743
% of Volume                     101       99       100      97      100     103     120     101     102      96       99




Hales Engineering                                                                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                          Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                         Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                                                 08/10/2020

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBU       EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.1     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1     0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.1     0.0    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.7
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.1      1.6        2.1     3.9     2.7     3.1    4.6    2.4    4.6    2.8    3.0     3.3
Vehicles Entered                 81       95         82      11    114        1   329      37      6      8     48    812
Vehicles Exited                  81       95         82      11    114        1   328      37      6      8     47    810
Hourly Exit Rate                 81       95         82      11    114        1   328      37      6      8     47    810
Input Volume                     81       89         81      10    120        1   326      35      6      8     49    806
% of Volume                    100      106        102     107       95    100    101    106      96     97     96    100

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0      0.0      0.9     0.2      0.2     3.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.8    0.3      0.3
Total Delay (hr)                 0.5      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.6    0.0    0.1    0.2      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              21.6     25.1       5.0    24.9    21.1      6.5    7.1    3.0    2.9    6.2    1.8      1.1
Vehicles Entered                  76        5       20       3        5      24     19   720      27     40   489      103
Vehicles Exited                   76        5       20       3        5      24     19   725      27     40   488      103
Hourly Exit Rate                  76        5       20       3        5      24     19   725      27     40   488      103
Input Volume                      74        5       21       4        5      24     20   722      28     39   494      107
% of Volume                     102      100        96      75     100     101      96   100      96   102      99       96

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.3
Total Delay (hr)                1.6
Total Del/Veh (s)               3.8
Vehicles Entered              1531
Vehicles Exited               1535
Hourly Exit Rate              1535
Input Volume                  1542
% of Volume                    100




Hales Engineering                                                                                             801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                     Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                   Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                        08/10/2020

9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress) Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT     WBT        WBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.3      0.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.1        2.4      1.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.5      0.6
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.5      0.9        4.1      2.4
Vehicles Entered               257      186        479      922
Vehicles Exited                256      186        479      921
Hourly Exit Rate               256      186        479      921
Input Volume                   249      184        480      912
% of Volume                    103      101        100      101

27: 300 East & Access 3 Performance by movement
Movement                       NBT      SBT          All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.3        0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.1      0.1        0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.7      0.6        0.6
Vehicles Entered               324      326        650
Vehicles Exited                323      326        649
Hourly Exit Rate               323      326        649
Input Volume                   332      328        660
% of Volume                      97       99         98

29: Access 2 (egress) Performance by movement
Movement                       SET     NWT        SWL      SWR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.2       0.2     0.4
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        4.2       4.4     3.2
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.7       0.9     1.6
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.7      0.8      17.5      16.5    12.9
Vehicles Entered                 92       16       140       186     434
Vehicles Exited                  92       16       140       187     435
Hourly Exit Rate                 92       16       140       187     435
Input Volume                     89       16       138       182     425
% of Volume                    103      102        101       103     102




Hales Engineering                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                            Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                 Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                      08/10/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    1.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   1.5
Total Delay (hr)                                    89.3
Total Del/Veh (s)                                   46.2
Vehicles Entered                                   2327
Vehicles Exited                                    6771
Hourly Exit Rate                                   6771
Input Volume                                      22506
% of Volume                                           30




Hales Engineering                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                          Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                          Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                               08/10/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       WB        NB    SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)              91      140       111   153
Average Queue (ft)              38        43       43    56
95th Queue (ft)                 78        94      109   111
Link Distance (ft)             478      366       104   253
Upstream Blk Time (%)                               0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                               3
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                       WB       WB         NB   SB     SB
Directions Served                L      TR         TR    L     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              80       57       149   40     75
Average Queue (ft)              28       16        19    6     10
95th Queue (ft)                 64       45        88   27     67
Link Distance (ft)             316                358         104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                           1
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                           7
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                    50              50
Storage Blk Time (%)              5       0         1     0    2
Queuing Penalty (veh)             1       0         0     1    0




Hales Engineering                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                   Page 6
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                                        08/10/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB    WB     WB     WB      NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L     T      T     TR      L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             315      662       592   444   295   317    339    342    319   400   572     250
Average Queue (ft)             237      343       304   248   170   159    169    186    191   326   461     192
95th Queue (ft)                374      581       529   415   293   301    308    314    307   483   663     332
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772   772         923    923    923                555
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0         0                                                  7
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     1         0                                                 86
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                            200                        250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            18       19                    16     3                    3     9    44       2
Queuing Penalty (veh)           83       45                    71     6                   19    64   349      23

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             282      346       273
Average Queue (ft)             151      194       140
95th Queue (ft)                260      318       259
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     2
Queuing Penalty (veh)                    11
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                200
Storage Blk Time (%)            11       13         3
Queuing Penalty (veh)           55       56        10

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L      T      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             228      236       333   124    67    187    186    221    64   193   148
Average Queue (ft)             101       59        64    32    23     84     84    109    19    84    49
95th Queue (ft)                193      152       211    94    56    169    172    206    51   155   112
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923   923         1803   1803   1803   548   350
Upstream Blk Time (%)                               0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                               0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                            150                                    100
Storage Blk Time (%)             5         0                          1                         12     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)           28         1                          1                          9     0




Hales Engineering                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                            Page 7
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                             Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                                                                  08/10/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                       EB        WB        NB    SB
Directions Served            ULTR       LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             39         62      147    48
Average Queue (ft)              6         20       42    14
95th Queue (ft)                29         50      109    41
Link Distance (ft)            379       883       350   102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       EB       WB    WB    NB     NB   SB      SB
Directions Served               LT        R        LT     R    L     TR    L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             108       39        31    42   49      6   50      23
Average Queue (ft)              44       14         8    16    9      0   12       1
95th Queue (ft)                 86       38        28    39   33      4   36      13
Link Distance (ft)             835                994               564         1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                   100             100   100         100
Storage Blk Time (%)              1
Queuing Penalty (veh)             0

Intersection: 9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




Hales Engineering                                                                              801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                      Page 8
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                        Morning Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project AM                             08/10/2020

Intersection: 27: 300 East & Access 3
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 29: Access 2 (egress)
Movement                         SW
Directions Served                 LR
Maximum Queue (ft)               377
Average Queue (ft)                97
95th Queue (ft)                  279
Link Distance (ft)               375
Upstream Blk Time (%)              5
Queuing Penalty (veh)              0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 928




Hales Engineering                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                 Page 9
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                         Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     300 East & 12200 South
Type:             Roundabout
                    Demand           Volume Served                   Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                   Avg          LOS
            L          254          242         95                   3.9           A
            T          262          257         98                   4.2           A
   NB
                Subtotal       516          499           97          4.1          A
                   T           204          202           99          6.3          A
                  R             53          55            103         5.6          A
    SB
                Subtotal       257          257           100         6.2          A
                   L            50          50            100        30.1          D
                  R            348          344           99         32.4          D
    EB
                Subtotal       398          394           99         32.1          D




  Total                       1,171        1,150          98         14.2          B


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                  Avg          LOS
            T          611           605         99                  3.0           A
            R           46           43          93                  2.1           A
   NB
                Subtotal       657          648           99          2.9          A
                   L            28          28            99         12.6          B
                   T           524          515           98         14.5          B
    SB
                Subtotal       552          543           98         14.4          B
                   T            2            2            100        25.3          D
    EB
                Subtotal        2            2            100        25.3          D
                   L           71           52            73         203.0         F
                   R            39           33           85         112.9         F
   WB
                Subtotal       110           85           77         168.0         F
  Total                       1,321        1,278          97          20.0         C
                             SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:            Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:    Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated
Time Period:        Evening Peak Hour                         Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served           Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %           Avg          LOS
             L          376          383          102          67.3          E
             T          365          361          99           78.6          E
   NB
            R           137          139          101          25.8          C
          Subtotal      878          883          101          65.4          E
             L          239          229          96          136.9          F
             T          269          254          94           75.6          E
   SB
            R           134          130          97           37.0          D
          Subtotal      642          613          95           90.3          F
             L          162          157          97          120.9          F
             T         1,102        1,100         100          32.2          C
   EB
            R           133          137          103          21.1          C
          Subtotal     1,397        1,394         100          41.1          D
             L          172          178          104          73.8          E
             T         1,507        1,519         101          21.3          C
   WB
            R           130          131          101          22.8          C
          Subtotal     1,809        1,828         101          26.5          C
  Total                4,726        4,718         100          50.8          D


Intersection:      450 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served          Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %          Avg          LOS
             L          21            24          114         60.9          E
             T           1             1          100         45.7          D
   NB
            R           42            40          95          21.5          C
          Subtotal      64            65          102         36.4          D
             L           6             6          96          66.8          E
             T           1             1          100         64.5          E
   SB
            R           60            61          102         15.4          B
          Subtotal      67            68          101         20.7          C
             L          71            66          93          25.1          C
             T         1,363        1,355         99           7.2          A
   EB
            R           45            47          104          5.3          A
          Subtotal     1,479        1,468         99           7.9          A
             L          42            43          102         27.7          C
             T         1,728        1,741         101         10.0          A
   WB
            R           37            36          98           9.1          A
          Subtotal     1,807        1,820         101         10.4          B
  Total                3,417        3,421         100         10.0          A
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                         Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                  Avg          LOS
             L           25          20          80                  2.3           A
             T           69          68          98                  1.3           A
   NB
            R            15          14          95                  2.2           A
          Subtotal      109          102         94                  1.6           A
             L           4            4          94                  1.5           A
             T           23          25          109                 1.7           A
   SB
            R            1            1          100                 1.8           A
          Subtotal       28          30          107                 1.7           A
             L           1            1          100                 1.2           A
    EB
                Subtotal        1            1            100         1.2          A
                   L            10          11            107         2.1          A
                   T            59          62            105         0.6          A
   WB
                  R             10          11            107         1.9          A
                Subtotal        79          84            106         1.0          A
  Total                        218          217           100         1.4          A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                  Avg          LOS
             L           35          37          106                  9.3          A
             T          496          496         100                  4.1          A
   NB
            R            22          20          91                   3.5          A
          Subtotal      553          553         100                  4.4          A
             L           46          46          100                  5.1          A
             T          618          601         97                   1.8          A
   SB
            R            38          41          109                  0.9          A
          Subtotal      702          688         98                   2.0          A
             L           17          16          96                  21.4          C
             T           8            8          97                  19.1          C
   EB
            R            40          39          98                   8.3          A
          Subtotal       65          63          97                  13.0          B
                   L           15           13            88         12.6          B
                   T            7             7           97         23.9          C
   WB
                  R            54            53           98          5.8          A
                Subtotal       76            73           96          8.7          A
  Total                       1,396        1,377          99          3.8          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                               Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                                                                 08/11/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBR        NBL    NBT     SBT      SBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.1      0.6       0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.7
Denied Del/Veh (s)               5.4      6.5       0.0    0.0     0.2       0.2     2.3
Total Delay (hr)                 0.4      3.2       0.3    0.3     0.4       0.1     4.6
Total Del/Veh (s)              30.1     32.4        3.9    4.2     6.3       5.6    14.2
Vehicles Entered                  50     353       242    258     202         54   1159
Vehicles Exited                   50     344       242    257     202         55   1150
Hourly Exit Rate                  50     344       242    257     202         55   1150
Input Volume                      50     348       254    262     204         53   1171
% of Volume                     100        99        95     98      99      103       98

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT       WBL      WBR     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT         All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      1.4       0.7    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      2.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)               3.6     73.0      63.6    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      5.8
Total Delay (hr)                 0.0      3.3       1.1    0.5     0.0      0.1      2.1      7.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              25.3     203.0     112.9    3.0     2.1     12.6    14.5      20.0
Vehicles Entered                   3       59        35   606       43       29     517     1292
Vehicles Exited                    2       52        33   605       43       28     515     1278
Hourly Exit Rate                   2       52        33   605       43       28     515     1278
Input Volume                       2       71        39   611       46       28     524     1321
% of Volume                     100        73        85     99      93       99       98       97

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBL        EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1     0.1     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      1.3     1.4     1.8
Total Delay (hr)                5.6      10.0       0.8     3.8      9.1     0.8     7.2      8.0      1.0      9.0     5.4     1.3
Total Del/Veh (s)            120.9       32.2     21.1    73.8     21.3    22.8    67.3     78.6     25.8    136.9    75.6    37.0
Vehicles Entered               162      1104       138     179    1516      131     382      361      139      233     255     130
Vehicles Exited                157      1100       137     178    1519      131     383      361      139      229     254     130
Hourly Exit Rate               157      1100       137     178    1519      131     383      361      139      229     254     130
Input Volume                   162      1102       133     172    1507      130     376      365      137      239     269     134
% of Volume                      97       100      103     104      101     101     102        99     101        96      94      97

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                          All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.2
Total Delay (hr)               62.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              46.5
Vehicles Entered              4730
Vehicles Exited               4718
Hourly Exit Rate              4718
Input Volume                  4726
% of Volume                     100


Hales Engineering                                                                                                     801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                             Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                           Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                                                            08/11/2020

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL       EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR    NBL     NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.1     0.2    0.1    0.1      3.4     1.9
Total Delay (hr)                0.5       2.7       0.1     0.3      4.9    0.1     0.4     0.0    0.2    0.1      0.0     0.3
Total Del/Veh (s)              25.1       7.2       5.3   27.7     10.0     9.1   60.9    45.7    21.5   66.8    64.5    15.4
Vehicles Entered                 66     1356         47      43   1745       36      24       1     40      6        1      61
Vehicles Exited                  66     1355         47      43   1741       36      24       1     40      6        1      61
Hourly Exit Rate                 66     1355         47      43   1741       36      24       1     40      6        1      61
Input Volume                     71     1363         45      42   1728       37      21       1     42      6        1      60
% of Volume                      93        99      104     102      101      98    114     100      95     96     100     102

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                          All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0
Total Delay (hr)                 9.6
Total Del/Veh (s)              10.0
Vehicles Entered              3426
Vehicles Exited               3421
Hourly Exit Rate              3421
Input Volume                  3417
% of Volume                     100

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      WBL       WBT     WBR     NBL      NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT    SBR       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.1     0.1     0.1    0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.2       2.1       0.6     1.9    2.3      1.3    2.2     1.5     1.7     1.8    1.4
Vehicles Entered                  1        11        62      11     20       68     14       4      25       1   217
Vehicles Exited                   1        11        62      11     20       68     14       4      25       1   217
Hourly Exit Rate                  1        11        62      11     20       68     14       4      25       1   217
Input Volume                      1        10        59      10     25       69     15       4      23       1   218
% of Volume                    100       107       105     107      80       98     95      94    109     100    100




Hales Engineering                                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                        Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                       Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                                                       08/11/2020

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT        EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.1        0.1     0.4    0.3    3.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.7    0.3      0.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.1      0.0        0.1     0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.6    0.0    0.1    0.3      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              21.4     19.1        8.3    12.6   23.9    5.8    9.3    4.1    3.5    5.1    1.8      0.9
Vehicles Entered                 16        8         39      13      7     53     37   496      20     46   602        40
Vehicles Exited                  16        8         39      13      7     53     37   496      20     46   601        41
Hourly Exit Rate                 16        8         39      13      7     53     37   496      20     46   601        41
Input Volume                     17        8         40      15      7     54     35   496      22     46   618        38
% of Volume                      96       97         98      88     97     98   106    100      91   100      97     109

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4
Total Delay (hr)                1.5
Total Del/Veh (s)               3.8
Vehicles Entered              1377
Vehicles Exited               1377
Hourly Exit Rate              1377
Input Volume                  1396
% of Volume                      99

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    3.3
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   6.6
Total Delay (hr)                                    88.5
Total Del/Veh (s)                                   43.6
Vehicles Entered                                   1750
Vehicles Exited                                    7120
Hourly Exit Rate                                   7120
Input Volume                                      19286
% of Volume                                           37




Hales Engineering                                                                                           801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                   Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                             08/11/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       NB         SB
Directions Served               LR       LT         TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             413      115        152
Average Queue (ft)             144       33         43
95th Queue (ft)                402       99        106
Link Distance (ft)             486      104       1200
Upstream Blk Time (%)            8        1
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0        6
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                        EB      WB        WB      NB   SB    SB
Directions Served               TR        L        TR     TR    L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              30      304       100    176   92   161
Average Queue (ft)               2      130        33     16   14    86
95th Queue (ft)                 16      317        92     84   55   198
Link Distance (ft)                      316              358        104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                    15                0    0    22
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0                0    0   125
Storage Bay Dist (ft)           50                 50          50
Storage Blk Time (%)             0       50         2     1     0   27
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0       20         1     0     3    8




Hales Engineering                                                                 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                         Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                                                08/11/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB    WB     WB     WB      NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L     T      T     TR      L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             225      532       515   429   280   327    347    364    281   400   572     250
Average Queue (ft)             168      272       250   190   142   129    153    179    145   245   380     137
95th Queue (ft)                264      534       498   361   254   260    280    310    237   422   624     306
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772   772         923    923    923                555
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0         0                                                  7
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     2         0                                                 67
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          110                            200                        250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            41       27                     8     1                    1     2    49       0
Queuing Penalty (veh)          153       44                    42     1                    3     9   252       0

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             300      396       200
Average Queue (ft)             263      324       131
95th Queue (ft)                356      448       249
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                    28
Queuing Penalty (veh)                   168
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                125
Storage Blk Time (%)            56       44         2
Queuing Penalty (veh)          226      164        10

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L      T      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              89      123       161   120    81    168    189    201   132    45    83
Average Queue (ft)              33       39        55    24    26     44     58     74    46     7    35
95th Queue (ft)                 71       97       124    79    64    118    138    158   103    30    69
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923   923         1797   1797   1797   551   350
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                            150                                    100
Storage Blk Time (%)                       0                          0                                0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                      0                          0                                0




Hales Engineering                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                            Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                       Evening Peak Hour
Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated                                                    08/11/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                        WB       NB        SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)               26       3        17
Average Queue (ft)                1       0         1
95th Queue (ft)                  11       3         9
Link Distance (ft)             883      350       102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB      WB        WB    NB     NB   SB      SB
Directions Served              LTR       LT         R    L     TR    L      TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              78       44        67   63     10   44      20
Average Queue (ft)              34       15        29   17      0   10       1
95th Queue (ft)                 63       42        56   48      6   34      13
Link Distance (ft)             835      998                   568         1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                             100   100         100
Storage Blk Time (%)                                0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                               0

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1303




Hales Engineering                                                                        801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                Page 6
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12200 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume          Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          254          239          94                5.1          A
             T          264          265          100               5.1          A
   NB
            R            12           12          102               5.2          A
          Subtotal      530          516          97                5.1          A
             L           37           34          91               27.1          D
             T          403          400          99               20.3          C
   SB
            R            53           54          101              22.5          C
          Subtotal      493          488          99               21.0          C
             L           50           49          98               70.8          F
             T           25           24          96               75.4          F
   EB
            R           348          334          96               67.6          F
          Subtotal      423          407          96               68.4          F
             L           99           98          99                8.4          A
             T           55           54          99                6.2          A
   WB
            R            3             3          109               7.7          A
          Subtotal      157          155          99                7.6          A
  Total                1,603        1,566         98               27.1          D


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          622           616         99                3.3           A
            R           46           41          89                2.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       668           657             98     3.3          A
                   L            28           25              88    12.3          B
                   T           780           759             97    10.5          B
    SB
                Subtotal       808           784             97    10.6          B
                   T            2             2              100   84.7          F
    EB
                Subtotal        2             2              100   84.7          F
                   L            71           50              70    317.6         F
                   R            39           29              75    188.5         F
   WB
                Subtotal       110            79             72    270.2         F
  Total                       1,588         1,522            96     22.9         C
                             SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:            Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:    Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period:        Evening Peak Hour                   Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served     Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %     Avg          LOS
             L          376          375          100    66.1          E
             T          368          359          98     87.3          F
   NB
            R           147          142          97     31.2          C
          Subtotal      891          876          98     69.1          E
             L          284          267          94    109.0          F
             T          287          275          96     67.2          E
   SB
            R           314          295          94     35.7          D
          Subtotal      885          837          95     69.4          E
             L          172          172          100   178.5          F
             T         1,189        1,185         100    42.2          D
   EB
            R           133          137          103    26.0          C
          Subtotal     1,494        1,494         100    56.4          E
             L          172          176          102    78.5          E
             T         1,507        1,516         101    29.8          C
   WB
            R           130          128          98     32.3          C
          Subtotal     1,809        1,820         101    34.7          C
  Total                5,078        5,027         99     61.2          E


Intersection:      450 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served    Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %    Avg          LOS
             L           21           20          95    69.9          E
             T           1             2          200   45.1          D
   NB
            R            42           43          102   20.3          C
          Subtotal       64           65          102   36.3          D
             L           51           50          98    68.4          E
             T           1             1          100   81.5          F
   SB
            R            60           59          99    15.0          B
          Subtotal      112          110          98    39.9          D
             L          167          158          95    28.6          C
             T         1,407        1,386         98     8.0          A
   EB
            R            45           46          102    5.7          A
          Subtotal     1,619        1,590         98    10.0          A
             L           42           40          95    26.2          C
             T         1,728        1,741         101   10.6          B
   WB
            R            97          102          105    9.7          A
          Subtotal     1,867        1,883         101   10.9          B
  Total                3,662        3,648         100   11.8          B
                                      SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L          181          176         97                3.1           A
             T           69          72          104               1.6           A
   NB
            R            15          14          95                3.1           A
          Subtotal      265          262         99                2.7           A
             L           4            4          94                1.6           A
             T           23          23          100               2.3           A
   SB
            R            1            1          100               4.1           A
          Subtotal       28          28          100               2.3           A
             L           1            1          100               2.1           A
             T           85          81          95                1.8           A
   EB
            R            45          46          102               1.9           A
          Subtotal      131          128         98                1.8           A
             L           10          10          98                2.4           A
             T          102          100         98                1.6           A
   WB
            R            10          11          107               2.8           A
          Subtotal      122          121         99                1.8           A
  Total                 588          577         98                2.2           A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                Avg          LOS
             L           35          34          98                13.7          B
             T          496          488         98                 4.2          A
   NB
            R            22          22          100                3.8          A
          Subtotal      553          544         98                 4.8          A
             L           46          51          111                4.4          A
             T          618          613         99                 3.4          A
   SB
            R            81          80          99                 2.1          A
          Subtotal      745          744         100                3.3          A
                   L            82           74              91    34.0          D
                   T            8              8             97    34.3          D
   EB
                  R             40            42             106   19.0          C
                Subtotal       130           124             95    28.9          D
                   L            15            15             102   31.6          D
                   T            7              8             110   28.5          D
   WB
                  R             54            53             98     6.4          A
                Subtotal        76            76             100   13.7          B
  Total                       1,504         1,488            99     6.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                  Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg             %                Avg          LOS
            T         168          162           96                0.4           A
    EB
                Subtotal       168           162             96     0.4          A
                   T           120          110              91    0.6           A
                   R           240           239             100    1.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       360           349             97     1.1          A




  Total                        528           511             97     0.9          A


Intersection:     300 East & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                 Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                 Avg          LOS
            T          316         315          100                1.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       316           315             100    1.9          A
                   T           262           252             96     4.7          A
    SB
                Subtotal       262           252             96     4.7          A
                   L           176          184              105   62.5          F
                   R            4             4              100   42.7          E
   WB
                Subtotal       180           188             104   62.1          F




  Total                        758           755             100   17.8          C
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                       Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     Access 2 (egress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                Avg          LOS
            T          39            34          88                0.4           A
   NW
                Subtotal        39           34              87     0.4          A
                   T            77           73              94     2.8          A
    SE
                Subtotal        77           73              95     2.8          A
                   L            78           76              97    6.4           A
                   R           102           106             104    4.7          A
   SW
                Subtotal       180           182             101    5.4          A




  Total                        296           289             98     4.2          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                           Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                                                   08/11/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR     NBL     NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.6      0.4        4.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.3     0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)             40.1     49.9      40.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0       0.1    3.8     3.0     4.3
Total Delay (hr)                1.0      0.5        6.5    0.2    0.1     0.0    0.3     0.4       0.0    0.3     2.3     0.3
Total Del/Veh (s)              70.8     75.4      67.6     8.4    6.2     7.7    5.1     5.1       5.2   27.1   20.3    22.5
Vehicles Entered                 50       25       344      98     54       3   239     265         12     34    402       55
Vehicles Exited                  49       24       334      98     54       3   239     265         12     34    400       54
Hourly Exit Rate                 49       24       334      98     54       3   239     265         12     34    400       54
Input Volume                     50       25       348      99     55       3   254     264         12     37    403       53
% of Volume                      98       96         96     99     99    109      94    100       102      91      99    101

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               5.4
Denied Del/Veh (s)             12.1
Total Delay (hr)               11.9
Total Del/Veh (s)              27.1
Vehicles Entered              1581
Vehicles Exited               1566
Hourly Exit Rate              1566
Input Volume                  1603
% of Volume                      98

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT      WBL       WBR     NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     1.9        1.4    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     3.4
Denied Del/Veh (s)               5.2   103.4      125.0    0.0    0.0    0.5      0.2     7.8
Total Delay (hr)                 0.0     5.1        1.7    0.6    0.0    0.1      2.2     9.8
Total Del/Veh (s)              84.7    317.6      188.5    3.3    2.9   12.3    10.5     22.9
Vehicles Entered                   2      57         33   616      41     25     763    1537
Vehicles Exited                    2      50         29   616      41     25     759    1522
Hourly Exit Rate                   2      50         29   616      41     25     759    1522
Input Volume                       2      71         39   622      46     28     780    1588
% of Volume                     100       70         75     99     89     88       97      96




Hales Engineering                                                                                               801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                       Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                             Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                                                       08/11/2020

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBL        EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.1     0.1     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.7     0.9     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                9.0      14.1       1.0     3.9    12.6      1.1     7.1     9.0     1.3      8.5     5.2     3.0
Total Del/Veh (s)            178.5       42.2     26.0    78.5     29.8    32.3    66.1    87.3    31.2    109.0    67.2    35.7
Vehicles Entered               178      1188       137     176    1516      128     376     358     142      270     275     297
Vehicles Exited                172      1185       137     176    1516      128     375     359     142      267     275     295
Hourly Exit Rate               172      1185       137     176    1516      128     375     359     142      267     275     295
Input Volume                   172      1189       133     172    1507      130     376     368     147      284     287     314
% of Volume                    100        100      103     102      101       98    100       98      97       94      96      94

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1
Total Delay (hr)               75.6
Total Del/Veh (s)              53.3
Vehicles Entered              5041
Vehicles Exited               5027
Hourly Exit Rate              5027
Input Volume                  5078
% of Volume                      99

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL       EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.1      0.3     0.2     0.1      1.7    1.2
Total Delay (hr)                 1.3      3.1       0.1    0.3       5.2     0.3    0.4      0.0     0.2     1.0      0.0    0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              28.6       8.0       5.7   26.2     10.6      9.7   69.9    45.1    20.3     68.4    81.5    15.0
Vehicles Entered                158     1389         46     40    1739      102      20        1      42      50        1     59
Vehicles Exited                 158     1386         46     40    1741      102      20        2      43      50        1     59
Hourly Exit Rate                158     1386         46     40    1741      102      20        2      43      50        1     59
Input Volume                    167     1407         45     42    1728        97     21        1      42      51        1     60
% of Volume                       95       98      102      95      101     105      95     200     102       98     100      99

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                          All
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0
Total Delay (hr)               12.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              11.8
Vehicles Entered              3647
Vehicles Exited               3648
Hourly Exit Rate              3648
Input Volume                  3662
% of Volume                     100


Hales Engineering                                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                           Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                           Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                                                   08/11/2020

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBU       EBL       EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.2     0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.1    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              2.0       2.1       1.8      1.9    2.4      1.6     2.8    3.1    1.6     3.1    1.6     2.3
Vehicles Entered                38         1        81       46     10     100       11   176      72      14      4      23
Vehicles Exited                 38         1        81       46     10     100       11   176      72      14      4      23
Hourly Exit Rate                38         1        81       46     10     100       11   176      72      14      4      23
Input Volume                    41         1        85       45     10     102       10   181      69      15      4      23
% of Volume                     93      100         95     102      98       98    107      97   104       95     94    100

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      SBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.4
Total Del/Veh (s)               4.1      2.2
Vehicles Entered                  1     577
Vehicles Exited                   1     577
Hourly Exit Rate                  1     577
Input Volume                      1     588
% of Volume                    100        98

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.1     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.0        1.5     0.2     0.2    3.3     0.0     0.0     0.0    2.7    0.3     0.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.7      0.1        0.2     0.1     0.1    0.1     0.1     0.6     0.0    0.1    0.6     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              34.0     34.3      19.0    31.6    28.5     6.4    13.7     4.2     3.8    4.4    3.4     2.1
Vehicles Entered                 76        8         42      15       8     53      34    488       22     51   613       80
Vehicles Exited                  74        8         42      15       8     53      34    488       22     51   613       80
Hourly Exit Rate                 74        8         42      15       8     53      34    488       22     51   613       80
Input Volume                     82        8         40      15       7     54      35    496       22     46   618       81
% of Volume                      91       97       106     102     110      98      98      98    100    111      99      99

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4
Total Delay (hr)                2.7
Total Del/Veh (s)               6.6
Vehicles Entered              1490
Vehicles Exited               1488
Hourly Exit Rate              1488
Input Volume                  1504
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                               801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                       Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                  Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                       08/11/2020

9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress) Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT     WBT        WBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.2     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.1     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.4      0.6        1.3     0.9
Vehicles Entered               162      110        239     511
Vehicles Exited                162      110        239     511
Hourly Exit Rate               162      110        239     511
Input Volume                   168      120        240     528
% of Volume                      96       91       100       97

27: 300 East & Access 3 Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     SBT         All
Denied Delay (hr)               2.4      0.1       0.0     0.0       2.5
Denied Del/Veh (s)            46.9     59.2        0.0     0.2     11.8
Total Delay (hr)                3.2      0.0       0.2     0.3       3.8
Total Del/Veh (s)             62.5     42.7        1.9     4.7     17.8
Vehicles Entered               185         4      316     253       758
Vehicles Exited                184         4      315     252       755
Hourly Exit Rate               184         4      315     252       755
Input Volume                   176         4      316     262       758
% of Volume                    105      100       100       96      100

29: Access 2 (egress) Performance by movement
Movement                       SET     NWT        SWL     SWR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0     0.0        0.3      0.3     0.2
Total Delay (hr)                0.1     0.0        0.1      0.1     0.3
Total Del/Veh (s)               2.8     0.4        6.4      4.7     4.2
Vehicles Entered                 73      34         76     106     289
Vehicles Exited                  73      34         76     106     289
Hourly Exit Rate                 73      34         76     106     289
Input Volume                     77      39         78     102     296
% of Volume                      94      88         97     104       98




Hales Engineering                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                           Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                  Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                       08/11/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    11.6
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   17.3
Total Delay (hr)                                   120.5
Total Del/Veh (s)                                    53.5
Vehicles Entered                                    2376
Vehicles Exited                                     7879
Hourly Exit Rate                                    7879
Input Volume                                      23306
% of Volume                                            34




Hales Engineering                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                           Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                               Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                    08/11/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       WB        NB    SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             487      122       120   266
Average Queue (ft)             257        39       58   130
95th Queue (ft)                566        90      130   276
Link Distance (ft)             478      366       104   253
Upstream Blk Time (%)           28                  2     5
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                 13    27
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                        EB      WB        WB     NB   SB    SB
Directions Served               TR        L        TR    TR    L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              32      330       100   197   89   166
Average Queue (ft)               3      179        36    31   14   100
95th Queue (ft)                 18      382       103   121   54   206
Link Distance (ft)                      316             358        104
Upstream Blk Time (%)                    31                    0    19
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0                    0   158
Storage Bay Dist (ft)           50                 50         50
Storage Blk Time (%)             0       70         1     3    0   22
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0       27         1     0    2    6




Hales Engineering                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                        Page 6
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                                        08/11/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB    WB     WB     WB      NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L     T      T     TR      L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             315      674       654   552   332   482    505    513    276   400   572     250
Average Queue (ft)             244      385       354   250   158   211    241    269    142   285   427     147
95th Queue (ft)                375      702       660   443   295   401    434    450    234   481   669     315
Link Distance (ft)                      772       772   772         923    923    923                555
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     1         0     0                                           10
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     7         1     0                                           95
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                            200                        250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            43       14                     8     6                    1     2    54       0
Queuing Penalty (veh)          171       25                    43    10                    4    10   282       0

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB
Directions Served                L        T         R
Maximum Queue (ft)             300      396       275
Average Queue (ft)             273      335       213
95th Queue (ft)                354      452       334
Link Distance (ft)                      358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                    21
Queuing Penalty (veh)                   182
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                200
Storage Blk Time (%)            52       31         6
Queuing Penalty (veh)          314      186        37

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L      T      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             203      189       195   155    61    173    216    237   120   137    95
Average Queue (ft)              68       44        67    29    22     43     58     78    45    51    36
95th Queue (ft)                143      128       152   100    55    121    151    180    93   106    75
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923   923         1797   1797   1797   548   350
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                            150                                    100
Storage Blk Time (%)             1         0                          0                          3     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)            7         0                          0                          2     0




Hales Engineering                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                            Page 7
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                               Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                                                                       08/11/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                       EB        WB        NB    SB
Directions Served            ULTR       LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             31         47       83    37
Average Queue (ft)              2          9       13     4
95th Queue (ft)                16         34       50    22
Link Distance (ft)            379       883       350   102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       EB       WB    WB    NB     NB    NB   SB      SB     SB
Directions Served               LT        R        LT     R    L      T    TR    L       T     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             147       76        60    56   66      3     4   61      33     94
Average Queue (ft)              55       26        20    27   19      0     0   10       1     11
95th Queue (ft)                122       68        48    49   52      3     3   32      24     87
Link Distance (ft)             835                994               564   564         1198   1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                   100             100   100               100
Storage Blk Time (%)              3       2                     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)             1       1                     0

Intersection: 9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




Hales Engineering                                                                                   801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                           Page 8
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                        Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM                             08/11/2020

Intersection: 27: 300 East & Access 3
Movement                       WB        SB
Directions Served               LR        T
Maximum Queue (ft)             382      193
Average Queue (ft)             127       18
95th Queue (ft)                344      112
Link Distance (ft)             360      904
Upstream Blk Time (%)           13
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 29: Access 2 (egress)
Movement                       SW
Directions Served               LR
Maximum Queue (ft)             115
Average Queue (ft)              44
95th Queue (ft)                 83
Link Distance (ft)             375
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 1613




Hales Engineering                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                 Page 9
                                       SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12200 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand            Volume Served                     Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume          Avg           %                     Avg          LOS
             L          254          248          98                      4.3          A
             T          264          263          100                     4.5          A
   NB
            R            12           12          102                     4.6          A
          Subtotal      530          523          99                      4.4          A
             L           37           34          91                     13.5          B
             T          403          410          102                    10.1          B
   SB
            R            53           56          105                    11.1          B
          Subtotal      493          500          101                    10.4          B
             L           50           53          105                    14.2          B
             T           25           25          100                    14.4          B
   EB
            R           348          347          100                    14.7          B
          Subtotal      423          425          100                    14.6          B
             L           99           99          100                     6.2          A
             T           55           53          97                      4.9          A
   WB
            R            3             4          145                     4.3          A
          Subtotal      157          156          99                      5.7          A
  Total                1,603        1,604         100                     9.1          A


Intersection:     300 East & Retail Access
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
            T          622           617         99                      3.0           A
            R           46           47          102                     2.4           A
   NB
                Subtotal       668           664            99            3.0          A
                   L            28           28             99            8.5          A
                   T           780           781            100           3.2          A
    SB
                Subtotal       808           809            100           3.4          A
                   T            2             1             50           27.4          D
    EB
                Subtotal         2            1             50           27.4          D
                   L            71           72            101           110.2         F
                   R            39            38            98           51.7          F
   WB
                Subtotal        110          110            100          90.0          F
  Total                        1,588        1,584           100           9.3          A
                              SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:            Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:    Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period:        Evening Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      300 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served               Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %               Avg          LOS
             L          376          367          98               70.7          E
             T          368          372          101              70.0          E
   NB
            R           147          148          101              23.0          C
          Subtotal      891          887          100              62.4          E
             L          284          291          102              74.6          E
             T          287          286          100              61.8          E
   SB
            R           314          313          100              25.7          C
          Subtotal      885          890          101              53.3          D
             L          172          164          95              103.1          F
             T         1,189        1,169         98               31.6          C
   EB
            R           133          134          101              21.4          C
          Subtotal     1,494        1,467         98               38.7          D
             L          172          170          99               62.5          E
             T         1,507        1,506         100              25.7          C
   WB
            R           130          129          99               29.9          C
          Subtotal     1,809        1,805         100              29.5          C
  Total                5,078        5,049         99               44.6          D


Intersection:      450 East & 12300 South
Type:              Signalized
                     Demand            Volume Served              Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                      Volume         Avg           %              Avg          LOS
             L           21           20          95              68.6          E
             T           1             1          100             77.7          E
   NB
            R            42           41          98              19.0          B
          Subtotal       64           62          97              35.9          D
             L           51           48          94              64.0          E
             T           1             1          100             49.2          D
   SB
            R            60           63          105             14.2          B
          Subtotal      112          112          100             35.9          D
             L          167          164          98              28.9          C
             T         1,407        1,394         99               7.7          A
   EB
            R            45           48          107              4.9          A
          Subtotal     1,619        1,606         99               9.8          A
             L           42           41          98              29.7          C
             T         1,728        1,721         100             10.7          B
   WB
            R            97           97          100              9.9          A
          Subtotal     1,867        1,859         100             11.1          B
  Total                3,662        3,639         99              11.7          B
                                       SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:      450 East & 12230 South
Type:              Roundabout
                     Demand           Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
             L          181          175         97                      3.2           A
             T           69          73          106                     1.5           A
   NB
            R            15          14          95                      3.0           A
          Subtotal      265          262         99                      2.7           A
             L           4            4          94                      1.7           A
             T           23          22          96                      2.5           A
   SB
            R            1            2          200                     1.3           A
          Subtotal       28          28          100                     2.3           A
             L           1            1          100                     1.9           A
             T           85          78          92                      1.7           A
   EB
            R            45          46          102                     1.9           A
          Subtotal      131          125         95                      1.8           A
             L           10          10          98                      2.4           A
             T          102          100         98                      1.6           A
   WB
            R            10           9          88                      2.4           A
          Subtotal      122          119         98                      1.7           A
  Total                 588          573         97                      2.3           A


Intersection:      700 East & 12200 South
Type:              Unsignalized
                     Demand           Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                     Volume         Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
             L           35          31          89                      11.2          B
             T          496          498         100                      4.4          A
   NB
            R            22          23          105                      3.6          A
          Subtotal      553          552         100                      4.7          A
             L           46          45          98                       5.1          A
             T          618          611         99                       2.6          A
   SB
            R            81          81          100                      1.3          A
          Subtotal      745          737         99                       2.6          A
                   L            82           76             93           32.1          D
                   T             8             8            97           26.4          D
   EB
                  R              40           40            101           7.5          A
                Subtotal        130          124            95           23.8          C
                   L             15           14            95           26.3          D
                   T             7             8            110          24.9          C
   WB
                  R              54           54            100           6.3          A
                Subtotal         76           76            100          11.9          B
  Total                        1,504        1,489           99            5.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand          Volume Served                        Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume        Avg             %                      Avg          LOS
            T         168          163           97                      0.4           A
    EB
                Subtotal       168           163            97            0.4          A
                   T           120           119            99           0.7           A
                   R           240           230            96            1.3          A
   WB
                Subtotal       360           349            97            1.1          A




  Total                        528           512            97            0.9          A


Intersection:     300 East & Access 3
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand           Volume Served                       Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume         Avg           %                       Avg          LOS
            T          316         318          101                      0.9           A
   NB
                Subtotal       316           318            101           0.9          A
                   T           262           265            101           0.8          A
    SB
                Subtotal       262           265            101           0.8          A
                   L           176           178           101           33.5          D
                   R             4            5             125          23.5          C
   WB
                Subtotal       180           183            102          33.2          D




  Total                        758           766            101           8.6          A
                                     SimTraffic LOS Report
Project:                   Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis Period:           Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period:               Evening Peak Hour                             Project #: UT20-1665


Intersection:     Access 2 (egress)
Type:             Unsignalized
                    Demand            Volume Served                      Delay/Veh (sec)
Approach Movement
                    Volume          Avg           %                      Avg          LOS
            T          39            42          108                     0.5           A
   NW
                Subtotal        39            42            108           0.5          A
                   T            77            75            97            1.4          A
    SE
                Subtotal        77            75            97            1.4          A
                   L            78           76             97           6.8           A
                   R           102            98            96            4.9          A
   SW
                Subtotal       180           174            97            5.7          A




  Total                        296           291            98            3.9          A
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                            Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                                                        08/11/2020

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT      NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.5      0.5       0.4     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0       0.1    0.0     0.2     0.3
Total Delay (hr)                 0.2      0.1       1.4     0.2    0.1      0.0    0.3    0.3       0.0    0.1     1.2     0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              14.2     14.4      14.7      6.2    4.9      4.3    4.3    4.5       4.6   13.5   10.1    11.1
Vehicles Entered                  53       26      348       99     53        4   247    263         12     35    410       56
Vehicles Exited                   53       25      347       99     53        4   248    263         12     34    410       56
Hourly Exit Rate                  53       25      347       99     53        4   248    263         12     34    410       56
Input Volume                      50       25      348       99     55        3   254    264         12     37    403       53
% of Volume                     105      100       100     100      97     145      98   100       102      91    102     105

1: 300 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.2
Total Delay (hr)                4.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               9.1
Vehicles Entered              1606
Vehicles Exited               1604
Hourly Exit Rate              1604
Input Volume                  1603
% of Volume                    100

2: 300 East & Retail Access Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT      WBL       WBR     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT       All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0       0.1      0.1     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              3.2       4.0      7.7     0.0      0.0    0.2     0.0     0.4
Total Delay (hr)                0.0       2.3      0.5     0.5      0.0    0.1     0.7     4.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              27.4    110.2      51.7     3.0      2.4    8.5     3.2     9.3
Vehicles Entered                  2        74       38    617        47     28    783    1589
Vehicles Exited                   1        72       38    617        47     28    781    1584
Hourly Exit Rate                  1        72       38    617        47     28    781    1584
Input Volume                      2        71       39    622        46     28    780    1588
% of Volume                      50      101        98      99     102      99    100     100




Hales Engineering                                                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                        Page 1
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                             Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                                                          08/11/2020

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBL       EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.1     0.7     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                4.8     10.3        0.8     3.0    10.8      1.1     7.5     7.4     1.0     6.2     5.0     2.3
Total Del/Veh (s)            103.1      31.6      21.4    62.5     25.7    29.9    70.7    70.0    23.0    74.6    61.8    25.7
Vehicles Entered               166     1170        134     169    1507      129     369     372     150     291     287     313
Vehicles Exited                164     1169        134     170    1506      129     367     372     148     291     286     313
Hourly Exit Rate               164     1169        134     170    1506      129     367     372     148     291     286     313
Input Volume                   172     1189        133     172    1507      130     376     368     147     284     287     314
% of Volume                      95       98       101       99     100       99      98    101     101     102     100     100

3: 300 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)               60.1
Total Del/Veh (s)              42.3
Vehicles Entered              5057
Vehicles Exited               5049
Hourly Exit Rate              5049
Input Volume                  5078
% of Volume                      99

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)                0.0     0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)               0.0     0.0        0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0    0.1      0.1    0.2     0.1      1.6     1.3
Total Delay (hr)                 1.3     3.0        0.1    0.3       5.2     0.3    0.4      0.0    0.2     0.9      0.0     0.2
Total Del/Veh (s)              28.9      7.7        4.9   29.7     10.7      9.9   68.6    77.7    19.0    64.0    49.2    14.2
Vehicles Entered                165    1395          48     41    1728        98     20        1     42      48        1      63
Vehicles Exited                 164    1394          48     41    1721        97     20        1     41      48        1      63
Hourly Exit Rate                164    1394          48     41    1721        97     20        1     41      48        1      63
Input Volume                    167    1407          45     42    1728        97     21        1     42      51        1      60
% of Volume                       98      99       107      98      100     100      95     100      98      94     100     105

4: 450 East & 12300 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0
Total Delay (hr)               12.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              11.7
Vehicles Entered              3650
Vehicles Exited               3639
Hourly Exit Rate              3639
Input Volume                  3662
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                          Page 2
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                          Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                                                      08/11/2020

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      EBU       EBL       EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL     SBT
Denied Delay (hr)              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.1     0.1
Total Delay (hr)               0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.2    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              1.9       1.9       1.7      1.9    2.4      1.6    2.4    3.2    1.5     3.0    1.7     2.5
Vehicles Entered                39         1        78       46     10     100      10   175      73      14      4      22
Vehicles Exited                 39         1        78       46     10     100       9   175      73      14      4      22
Hourly Exit Rate                39         1        78       46     10     100       9   175      73      14      4      22
Input Volume                    41         1        85       45     10     102      10   181      69      15      4      23
% of Volume                     95      100         92     102      98       98     88     97   106       95     94      96

5: 450 East & 12230 South Performance by movement
Movement                      SBR         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.0
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.4
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.3      2.3
Vehicles Entered                  2     574
Vehicles Exited                   2     573
Hourly Exit Rate                  2     573
Input Volume                      1     588
% of Volume                    200        97

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                       EBL      EBT       EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.1      0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.1      0.1        1.5    0.2      0.2     3.3    0.0    0.0     0.0    2.7    0.3      0.3
Total Delay (hr)                0.7      0.1        0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1    0.6     0.0    0.1    0.4      0.0
Total Del/Veh (s)              32.1     26.4        7.5   26.3    24.9      6.3   11.2    4.4     3.6    5.1    2.6      1.3
Vehicles Entered                 75        8         41     14        8      54     31   498       23     45   611        81
Vehicles Exited                  76        8         40     14        8      54     31   498       23     45   611        81
Hourly Exit Rate                 76        8         40     14        8      54     31   498       23     45   611        81
Input Volume                     82        8         40     15        7      54     35   496       22     46   618        81
% of Volume                      93       97       101      95     110     100      89   100     105      98     99     100

6: 700 East & 12200 South Performance by movement
Movement                         All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.2
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.4
Total Delay (hr)                2.3
Total Del/Veh (s)               5.6
Vehicles Entered              1489
Vehicles Exited               1489
Hourly Exit Rate              1489
Input Volume                  1504
% of Volume                      99


Hales Engineering                                                                                              801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                                      Page 3
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                          08/11/2020

9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress) Performance by movement
Movement                       EBT     WBT        WBR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0        0.2     0.1
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0        0.1     0.1
Total Del/Veh (s)               0.4      0.7        1.3     0.9
Vehicles Entered               163      120        230     513
Vehicles Exited                163      119        230     512
Hourly Exit Rate               163      119        230     512
Input Volume                   168      120        240     528
% of Volume                      97       99         96      97

27: 300 East & Access 3 Performance by movement
Movement                      WBL      WBR        NBT     SBT        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.1      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.1
Denied Del/Veh (s)              2.3      2.4       0.0     0.2      0.6
Total Delay (hr)                1.7      0.0       0.1     0.1      1.8
Total Del/Veh (s)             33.5     23.5        0.9     0.8      8.6
Vehicles Entered               179         5      318     266      768
Vehicles Exited                178         5      318     265      766
Hourly Exit Rate               178         5      318     265      766
Input Volume                   176         4      316     262      758
% of Volume                    101      125       101     101      101

29: Access 2 (egress) Performance by movement
Movement                       SET     NWT        SWL     SWR        All
Denied Delay (hr)               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0
Denied Del/Veh (s)              0.0      0.0       0.3      0.3     0.2
Total Delay (hr)                0.0      0.0       0.1      0.1     0.3
Total Del/Veh (s)               1.4      0.5       6.8      4.9     3.9
Vehicles Entered                 75       42        76       98    291
Vehicles Exited                  75       42        76       98    291
Hourly Exit Rate                 75       42        76       98    291
Input Volume                     77       39        78     102     296
% of Volume                      97     108         97       96      98




Hales Engineering                                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                          Page 4
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                 Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                          08/11/2020

Total Zone Performance

Denied Delay (hr)                                    0.7
Denied Del/Veh (s)                                   1.0
Total Delay (hr)                                    88.9
Total Del/Veh (s)                                   39.6
Vehicles Entered                                   2407
Vehicles Exited                                    7906
Hourly Exit Rate                                   7906
Input Volume                                      23306
% of Volume                                           34




Hales Engineering                                                  801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                          Page 5
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                               Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                        08/11/2020

Intersection: 1: 300 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       WB        NB    SB
Directions Served              LTR      LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             326        97      113   247
Average Queue (ft)             105        34       54    92
95th Queue (ft)                241        76      116   202
Link Distance (ft)             478      366       105   253
Upstream Blk Time (%)            0                  1     1
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0                  4     3
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: 300 East & Retail Access
Movement                        EB      WB        WB     NB   SB    SB
Directions Served               TR        L        TR    TR    L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)              24      287       100   164   69   161
Average Queue (ft)               2      101        37    26   14    33
95th Queue (ft)                 12      252        96   103   45   127
Link Distance (ft)                      311             358        105
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     5                    0     4
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0                    0    33
Storage Bay Dist (ft)           50                 50         50
Storage Blk Time (%)             0       42         2     2    0    5
Queuing Penalty (veh)            0       17         1     0    4    1




Hales Engineering                                                                801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                        Page 6
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                 Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                                            08/11/2020

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB    WB     WB     WB      NB    NB    NB      NB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L     T      T     TR      L     L     T       R
Maximum Queue (ft)             308      500       464   381   292   411    432    464    288   400   569     250
Average Queue (ft)             181      257       237   200   124   179    202    236    156   263   379     151
95th Queue (ft)                319      435       400   337   237   344    372    404    256   449   610     322
Link Distance (ft)                      771       771   771         923    923    923                555
Upstream Blk Time (%)                                                                                  5
Queuing Penalty (veh)                                                                                 43
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200                            200                        250   250           150
Storage Blk Time (%)            17       11                     4     4                    1     3    45       0
Queuing Penalty (veh)           70       20                    22     6                    4    17   236       0

Intersection: 3: 300 East & 12300 South
Movement                        SB       SB        SB    SB
Directions Served                L        L         T     R
Maximum Queue (ft)             226      300       376   275
Average Queue (ft)             132      175       252   183
95th Queue (ft)                210      283       388   314
Link Distance (ft)                                358
Upstream Blk Time (%)                               4
Queuing Penalty (veh)                              38
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          200      200             200
Storage Blk Time (%)             1        4        23     3
Queuing Penalty (veh)            8       26       141    15

Intersection: 4: 450 East & 12300 South
Movement                        EB       EB        EB    EB   WB     WB     WB     WB     NB    SB    SB
Directions Served                L        T         T    TR     L      T      T     TR   LTR     L    TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             184      259       281   156    91    166    208    221   127   139   116
Average Queue (ft)              72       50        68    29    24     42     58     78    45    46    37
95th Queue (ft)                144      171       190    99    68    119    150    178    95   103    76
Link Distance (ft)                      923       923   923         1797   1797   1797   548   350
Upstream Blk Time (%)                     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                     0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)          150                            150                                    100
Storage Blk Time (%)             1         0                    0     0                          4     0
Queuing Penalty (veh)            6         0                    0     0                          2     0




Hales Engineering                                                                                    801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                            Page 7
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                                                                Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                                                         08/11/2020

Intersection: 5: 450 East & 12230 South
Movement                       EB        WB        NB    SB
Directions Served            ULTR       LTR       LTR   LTR
Maximum Queue (ft)             32         40       84    34
Average Queue (ft)              3          9       16     5
95th Queue (ft)                18         32       55    24
Link Distance (ft)            379       883       350   102
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 6: 700 East & 12200 South
Movement                        EB       EB       WB    WB    NB     NB   SB      SB     SB
Directions Served               LT        R        LT     R    L     TR    L       T     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)             121       62        51    62   61      6   48       1     29
Average Queue (ft)              50       22        19    26   15      0   10       0      1
95th Queue (ft)                101       49        46    49   44      4   32       1     14
Link Distance (ft)             835                994               564         1198   1198
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)                   100             100   100         100
Storage Blk Time (%)              3                       0                 0
Queuing Penalty (veh)             1                       0                 0

Intersection: 9: 12230 South & Access 1 (ingress)
Movement
Directions Served
Maximum Queue (ft)
Average Queue (ft)
95th Queue (ft)
Link Distance (ft)
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




Hales Engineering                                                                                 801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                                                         Page 8
Draper Beehive Academy TIS                        Evening Peak Hour
Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated                 08/11/2020

Intersection: 27: 300 East & Access 3
Movement                         WB      SB
Directions Served                 LR      T
Maximum Queue (ft)               326     32
Average Queue (ft)                89      1
95th Queue (ft)                  250     20
Link Distance (ft)               360    904
Upstream Blk Time (%)              4
Queuing Penalty (veh)              0
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 29: Access 2 (egress)
Movement                         SW
Directions Served                 LR
Maximum Queue (ft)               134
Average Queue (ft)                45
95th Queue (ft)                   97
Link Distance (ft)               375
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Zone Summary
Zone wide Queuing Penalty: 722




Hales Engineering                                         801.766.4343
1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202, Lehi, Utah 84043                 Page 9
    Beehive Academy Charter School
                    Traffic Impact Study




APPENDIX C
              Site Plan
                    Beehive Academy Charter School
                                    Traffic Impact Study




         APPENDIX D
95th Percentile Queue Length Reports
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2020) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                              Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                                                  B2
                                        NB                 SB                EB                  WB
                                                                                                                   0
        Intersection             L LTR R     T   TR L LTR R     T TR L LTR R      T TR L LT LTR R     T TR       T
1: 300 East & Retail Access      -- --  --   --  14 24  --  --  -- 22 --  --  --  -- -- 54 --  -- --  -- 42      --
2: 300 East & 12300 South       402 -- 223 1,014 -- 152 -- 150 227 -- 277 -- 303 602 -- 235 -- -- -- 270 253     --
3: 450 East & 12300 South        -- 46  --   --   -- 22 --  --  -- 75 51  --  --  7  3   55 -- -- --  3   2      --
4: 450 East & 12230 South        --  5  --   --   -- -- 11  --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --  -- -- 3  --  --  --     --
5: 700 East & 12200 South        29 --  --   --   2  36 --  --  --  1  -- 56  --  -- --  -- 33 -- 43 --   --    112
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2020) Background - Mitigated
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                              Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                                                  B2
                                             NB           SB                EB                  WB
                                                                                                                   0
        Intersection              L LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR L LTR R      T TR L LT LTR R     T TR        T
1: 300 East & Retail Access       -- --  --  -- 32 24  --  --  -- 29 --  --  --  --  -- 57 -- -- --  -- 44       --
2: 300 East & 12300 South        380 -- 325 651 -- 240 -- 202 284 -- 266 -- 243 506 -- 290 -- -- -- 350 293      --
3: 450 East & 12300 South         -- 47  --  -- -- 25  --  --  -- 83 64  --  -- 148 153 63 -- -- -- 103 92       --
4: 450 East & 12230 South         -- --  --  -- --  -- 8   --  -- --  --  3  --  --  -- -- -- 3  --  --  --      --
5: 700 East & 12200 South         28 --  --  --  4  36 --  --  -- 16 --  56  --  --  -- -- 33 -- 47 --   --     238
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2020) Plus Project AM
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                            Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                   S                                            B2
                                            NB                      SB                               EB        WB
                                                                                   W                                             0
                                                                                             ULT
                                  L   LTR   R    T   TR   L   LTR   R    T   TR   LR   L   LTR   R    T   TR
                                                                                                  L LT LTR R   T TR            T
        Intersection                                                                          R
1: 300 East & 12200 South         -- 107 --  -- --  -- 140 --  --  --  --  -- 107 --  --  --  --  -- -- 84 --  --  --          --
2: 300 East & Retail Access       --  -- --  -- 59 34   -- --  -- 130 --   --  -- --  --  --  -- 114 -- -- --  -- 46           --
3: 300 East & 12300 South        402 -- 312 673 -- 293 -- 241 400 --   -- 273 -- 333 870 --   -- 393 -- -- -- 766 337          --
4: 450 East & 12300 South         --  51 --  -- -- 183 --  --  -- 114 -- 248 --   -- 292 262 --   98 -- -- -- 421 450          --
5: 450 East & 12230 South         -- 108 --  -- --  --  40 --  --  --  --  --  -- --  --  --  30  -- -- 53 --  --  --          --
6: 700 East & 12200 South         33  -- --  --  6  44  -- --  --  3   --  -- 135 --  --  --  --  -- 35 -- 47 --   --         288
8: 300 East & Access 3            --  -- --  -- --  --  -- -- 14 --    --  --  -- --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --          --
9: Access 2 (egress)              --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --  --  -- 211 --   -- --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --          --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2020) Plus Project AM - Mitigated
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                  Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                      S                                               B2
                                              NB                       SB                              EB            WB
                                                                                      W                                                0
                                                                                                   ULT
                                   L   LTR    R     T   TR   L   LTR   R    T   TR   LR   L   LT LTR   R    T   TR
                                                                                                        L LT LTR R   T TR            T
        Intersection                                                                                R
1: 300 East & 12200 South          --  99 --  -- --  -- 133 --  --  --  --  --  -- 147 --   --  --  --  -- -- 98 --  --  --          --
2: 300 East & Retail Access        --  -- --  -- 57 34   -- --  -- 106 --   --  --  --  --  --  --  -- 117 -- -- --  -- 45           --
3: 300 East & 12300 South         402 -- 317 680 -- 286 -- 281 375 --   -- 366 --   -- 336 745 --   -- 445 -- -- -- 509 246          --
4: 450 East & 12300 South          --  47 --  -- -- 163 --  --  -- 115 -- 227 --    --  -- 202 148 --   69 -- -- -- 260 273          --
5: 450 East & 12230 South          -- 125 --  -- --  --  47 --  --  --  --  --  --  --  --  --  --  31  -- -- 53 --  --  --          --
6: 700 East & 12200 South          30  -- --  --  3  38  -- --  --  4   --  -- 105 --   42 --   --  --  -- 32 -- 42 --   --         258
8: 300 East & Access 3             --  -- --  -- --  --  -- -- 49 --    --  --  --  --  --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --          --
9: Access 2 (egress)               --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --  --  -- 265 --   --  --  --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --          --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                          Project #: UT20-1665

                                        NB                SB                EB                   WB
        Intersection             L LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR L LTR R      T TR L LT LTR R        T TR
1: 300 East & Retail Access      -- --  --  -- 34 33  --  --  -- 111 --  -- --  --  -- 95 --  --   --  -- 46
2: 300 East & 12300 South       399 -- 317 673 -- 307 -- 231 384 -- 266 -- 331 873 -- 402 --  --   -- 849 353
3: 450 East & 12300 South        -- 44  --  -- -- 34  --  --  -- 103 130 -- -- 483 492 193 -- --   -- 607 616
4: 450 East & 12230 South        --  6  --  -- --  -- 8   --  --  --  -- -- --  --  --  -- -- 6    --  --  --
5: 700 East & 12200 South        29 --  --  --  3  32 --  --  --  3   -- 56 --  --  --  -- 29 --  46 --    --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background - Mitigated
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                       Project #: UT20-1665

                                        NB                SB               EB                WB
        Intersection             L LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T TR L LTR T TR L LT LTR R           T TR
1: 300 East & Retail Access      -- --  --  -- 24 26  --  --  -- 32 --  --   -- -- 58 --  --   --  -- 44
2: 300 East & 12300 South       389 -- 331 675 -- 252 -- 214 313 -- 268 -- 477 352 300 -- --   -- 293 289
3: 450 East & 12300 South        -- 44  --  -- -- 13  --  --  -- 75 53  -- 188 103 54 --  --   -- 195 152
4: 450 East & 12230 South        --  6  --  -- --  -- 9   --  -- --  -- --   -- --  -- -- 3    --  --  --
5: 700 East & 12200 South        26 --  --  --  3  33 --  --  --  1  -- 54   -- --  -- 30 --  46 --    --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2025) Plus Project AM
Time Period: Morning Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                    Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                   S
                                            NB                      SB                              EB                      WB
                                                                                   W
                                                                                                               ULT
                                  L   LTR   R    T   TR   L   LTR   R    T   TR   LR   L   LT LTR   R    T   TR    L LT LTR R   T TR
        Intersection                                                                                            R
1: 300 East & 12200 South         -- 109 --  -- --  -- 111 --  --  --  --  -- --              78    --  --  --  -- -- -- 94 --  --  --
2: 300 East & Retail Access       --  -- --  -- 88 27   -- --  -- 67   --  -- --              --    --  --  --  -- 64 -- -- --  -- 45
3: 300 East & 12300 South        395 -- 332 663 -- 260 -- 259 318 --   -- 374 --              --    -- 555 415 -- 293 -- -- -- 305 314
4: 450 East & 12300 South         --  51 --  -- -- 155 --  --  -- 112 -- 193 --               --    -- 182 94   -- 56 -- -- -- 171 206
5: 450 East & 12230 South         -- 109 --  -- --  --  41 --  --  --  --  -- --              --    --  --  --  29 -- -- 50 --  --  --
6: 700 East & 12200 South         33  -- --  --  4  36  -- --  -- 13   --  -- 86              --    38 --   --  -- -- 28 -- 39 --   --
9: Access 2 (egress)              --  -- --  -- --  --  -- --  --  -- 279 --  --              --    --  --  --  -- -- -- -- --  --  --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Future (2025) Background PM - Mitigated
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                            Project #: UT20-1665

                                        NB                SB                  EB                   WB
        Intersection             L LTR R    T TR L LTR R      T    TR L LTR T        TR L LT LTR R       T TR
1: 300 East & Retail Access      --  -- --  -- 84 55  --  --  --   198 --  --   --    16 317 -- --   --  -- 92
2: 300 East & 12300 South       330 -- 306 624 -- 356 -- 249 448    -- 264 -- 516    361 254 -- --   -- 270 310
3: 450 East & 12300 South        -- 103 --  -- -- 30  --  --  --    69 71  -- 111     79 64 --  --   -- 128 158
4: 450 East & 12230 South        --  3  --  -- --  -- 9   --  --    --  -- --   --    --  -- -- 11   --  --  --
5: 700 East & 12200 South        48  -- --  --  6  34 --  --  --    13 --  63   --    --  -- 42 --  56 --    --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2025) Plus Project PM
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                       Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                   S
                                            NB                      SB                             EB                        WB
                                                                                   W
                                                                                                              ULT
                                  L   LTR   R    T   TR   L   LTR   R    T   TR   LR    L LT LTR R     T TR        L LR LT LTR R    T TR
        Intersection                                                                                           R
1: 300 East & 12200 South         -- 130 --  --  --  -- 276 --  --  --            --    --  -- 566 --  --  --  --  --  -- -- 90 --  --  --
2: 300 East & Retail Access       --  -- --  -- 121 54   -- --  -- 206            --    --  --  -- --  -- 18   -- 382 --  -- -- --  -- 103
3: 300 East & 12300 South        358 -- 315 669 -- 354 -- 334 452 --              --   375 --   -- -- 681 443 -- 295 --   -- -- -- 418 450
4: 450 East & 12300 South         --  93 --  --  -- 106 --  --  -- 75             --   143 --   -- -- 140 100 --   55 --  -- -- -- 136 180
5: 450 East & 12230 South         --  50 --  --  --  --  22 --  --  --            --    --  --  -- --  --  --  16  --  -- -- 34 --  --  --
6: 700 East & 12200 South         52  -- --  3   3   32  -- -- 24 87              --    -- 122 --  68 --   --  --  --  -- 48 -- 49 --   --
8: 300 East & Access 3            --  -- --  --  --  --  -- -- 112 --             --    --  --  -- --  --  --  --  -- 344 -- -- --  --  --
9: Access 2 (egress)              --  -- --  --  --  --  -- --  --  --            83    --  --  -- --  --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --
SimTraffic Queueing Report
Project: Draper Beehive Academy TIS
Analysis: Existing (2025) Plus Project PM - Mitigated
Time Period: Evening Peak Hour
95th Percentile Queue Length (feet)                                                                                             Project #: UT20-1665

                                                                                      S
                                              NB                       SB                               EB                        WB
                                                                                      W
                                                                                                                   ULT
                                   L   LTR    R     T   TR   L   LTR   R    T   TR   LR   L   LT LTR    R    T   TR     L LR LT LTR R    T TR
        Intersection                                                                                                R
1: 300 East & 12200 South          -- 116 --  --  --  -- 202 -- --  --               --    --  -- 241   --  --  --  --  --  -- -- 76 --  --  --
2: 300 East & Retail Access        --  -- --  -- 103 45   -- -- -- 127               --    --  --  --   --  -- 12   -- 252 --  -- -- --  -- 96
3: 300 East & 12300 South         353 -- 322 610 -- 247 -- 314 388 --                --   319 --   --   -- 418 337 -- 237 --   -- -- -- 358 404
4: 450 East & 12300 South          --  95 --  --  -- 103 --  -- -- 76                --   144 --   --   -- 181 99   --  68 --  -- -- -- 135 178
5: 450 East & 12230 South          --  55 --  --  --  --  24 -- --  --               --    --  --  --   --  --  --  18  --  -- -- 32 --  --  --
6: 700 East & 12200 South          44  -- --  --  4   32  -- --  1  14               --    -- 101 --    49 --   --  --  --  -- 46 -- 49 --   --
8: 300 East & Access 3             --  -- --  --  --  --  -- -- 20 --                --    --  --  --   --  --  --  --  -- 250 -- -- --  --  --
9: Access 2 (egress)               --  -- --  --  --  --  -- -- --  --               97    --  --  --   --  --  --  --  --  -- -- -- --  --  --
