Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: July 9, 2020
Re: Draper Cove Phase 2 – Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 0.42 acres located in the northeast corner of Pioneer Road and 800 East, at approximately 12391 South 800 East. The property is currently zoned TC (Town Center) . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the properties into a commercial and office development. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The entire site is being developed as a phased development plan.
2. The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
6.  The site plan contains adequate buffering and significant plantings and setbacks in lieu of a fence adjacent to the house located to the north of the site .
For denial:
1. The entire site is not being developed at one time.
2. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3. The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
6.  The site plan does not contain adequate buffering and significant plantings and setbacks in lieu of a fence adjacent to the house located to the north of the site . ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 7/1/2020 Cover Memo