                The link to the agenda with the backup documents can be found at the
                   following link: https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes




                                    CITY COUNCIL AGENDA
                                              AMENDED
    Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a Business Meeting on Tuesday,
    January 14, 2020 at 5:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road,
    Draper, Utah.

    The Agenda will be as follows:
    5:30 PM STUDY MEETING

    1.        Discussion: Vacation of Right of Way on 12100 South - Scott Cooley
a
    2.        Council/Manager Reports
a

    7:00 p.m. BUSINESS MEETING

    1.        Call to Order

    2.        Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

    3.        Proclamation: School Choice Week
              School Choice Week, January 26 - February 1, 2020, is celebrated across the country
              to raise awareness of the need for effective educational options.
a
    4.        Proclamation: School Board Recognition Month
              The mission of Canyons Board of Education is to meet the diverse educational needs
              of all children. Canyons District has emerged as a District of Distinction as evidenced
              by rising test scores, graduation rates, and the celebrated achievements of its student
              artists and athletes.
a

    5.        Public Comments
              To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
              restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
              minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
              submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
              Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
              should be held until that item is called.
    6.        Consent Items
              a.    Approval of December 10, 2019, City Council Meeting Minutes
              b.    Approval of Resolution #20-06, appointing Nate Shipp as a member of the
                    Draper City Arena Advisory Board

    7.        Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1419, Draper Academy Town Center
              Text Amendment Request (Legislative Action)
              On the request of Christine Kremer and Bret Steel for a text amendment to Draper
              City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-11-110 to allow a private school with up to
              15 students within the TC (Town Center) zone. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.
a
    8.        Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1420, Silverhawk Subdivision Zone
              Change Request (Legislative Action)
              On the request of Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises, for a zone change
              from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2
              (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) for 3.68 acres of property
              located at 1110 East 13200 South and 13260 South 1162 East. Staff report by Jennifer
              Jastremsky.
a
    9.        Public Hearing: Approval of Resolution #20-03, amending the Fiscal Year 2020
              Budget (Legislative Action)
              Amending the FY2020 General Fund Budget including a discussion on amending the
              compensation for the Mayor. Staff: Bob Wylie
a
    10.       Action Item: Approval of Ordinance #1416, vacating a Public Right-of-Way
              along a portion of 12100 South (Legislative Action)
              Vacating Public Right-of-Way at 690 East 12100 South in the Draperville Plat. Staff
              report by Scott Cooley.
a
    11.       Action Item: Approval of Resolution #20-01, appointing the 2020 Mayor Pro
              Tempore (Administrative Action)
a
    12.       Action Item: Approval of Resolution #20-02, approving the 2020 Council
              Assignment List (Administrative Action)
a

    13.       Adjournment
    SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

    I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City
    Council meeting to be held January 14, 2020, were posted on the Draper City Electronic
    Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us, the Utah Public Notice website at
    www.utah.gov/pmn, and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.
    Date Posted: January 10, 2020
                                                    Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
                                                    Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or
services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or
laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                        Upload Date   Type
Proclamation: School Choice Week   1/9/2020      Cover Memo
                                PROCLAMATION
                                School Choice Week

         WHEREAS all children in City of Draper should have access to the highest-
  quality education possible; and,

       WHEREAS City of Draper recognizes the important role that an effective
 education plays in preparing all students in City of Draper to be successful adults;
 and,

        WHEREAS quality education is critically important to the economic vitality of
 City of Draper; and,

        WHEREAS City of Draper is home to a multitude of high-quality public and
 nonpublic schools from which parents can choose for their children, in addition to
 families who educate their children in the home; and

        WHEREAS, educational variety not only helps to diversify our economy, but
 also enhances the vibrancy of our community; and,

        WHEREAS City of Draper has many high-quality teaching professionals in
 all types of school settings who are committed to educating our children; and,

        WHEREAS, School Choice Week is celebrated across the country by
 millions of students, parents, educators, schools and organizations to raise
 awareness of the need for effective educational options;

       NOW, THEREFORE, I, Troy K. Walker do hereby recognize January 26 –
 February 1, 2020, as the City of Draper School Choice Week, and I call this
 observance to the attention of all of our citizens.

                    PROCLAIMED THIS 14TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020



ATTEST:                                       DRAPER CITY:




________________________________              ___________________________________

Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                 Troy K. Walker, Mayor
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                  Upload Date   Type
Proclamation: School Board   1/9/2020      Cover Memo
                                      PROCLAMATION
                       SCHOOL BOARD RECOGNITION MONTH
WHEREAS, public schools are integral to the stability and vitality of our democracy,
empowering young people to become productive contributors to an ever-changing world while
upholding our nation’s values of freedom, self-reliance and equality of opportunity; and

WHEREAS, the mission of Canyons School District is to meet the diverse educational needs of
all children, including, among its 34,000 students, 5,400 that reside in the Draper City area; and

WHEREAS, members of the Canyons Board of Education and staff have forged and
strengthened relationships with municipal, state and federal partners to implement a shared
educational vision for the betterment of families, children and communities; and

WHEREAS, the Board works to secure and direct resources to promote student achievement
and has invested in such innovations as standards-based grading, Utah’s first differentiated
diplomas, the reconfiguration of grades in every school, and expanded early childhood and early-
college programs; and

WHEREAS, members of the Board endorsed two successful bond proposals to bring much-
needed safety upgrades to schools and build the first traditional public high school in Draper
(Corner Canyon High) and first traditional public middle school (Draper Park Middle); and

WHEREAS, members of the Board are committed to recruiting and retaining the best and
brightest teachers and have invested in a progressive salary schedule to elevate the teaching
profession; and

WHEREAS, under the Board’s leadership, Canyons has emerged as a District of Distinction, as
evidenced by rising test scores and graduation rates and the celebrated achievements of its
student artists and athletes; and

WHEREAS, School Board Appreciation Month is celebrated throughout the country in January;
and

Now, therefore, I, Troy K. Walker, do hereby declare my deepest appreciation to members of
the Canyons Board of Education, who diligently serve and participate in our community, and
recognize the month of January 2020 as School Board Recognition Month.


                   PROCLAIMED THIS 11TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020

ATTEST:                                                             DRAPER CITY:

_______________________                                             ________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                                       Troy K. Walker, Mayor
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

Comments:

The draft minutes of the December 10, 2019 City Council Meeting have been attached for the council's
consideration for approval.
ATTACHMENTS:
Description                                                      Upload Date          Type
CC 12.10 Minutes                                                 1/2/2020             Cover Memo
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2019, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:              Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                      Alan Summerhays, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:              Michele Weeks

STAFF PRESENT:    David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                  Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                  Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Russ Fox, Assistant
                  City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Director
                  of Community Development, Clint Smith, Fire Chief, and Bob Wylie,
                  Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
Dinner

Study Meeting


1.0    Presentation: Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District, Water Wise by Russ Fox

       Russ Fox explained that in August of 2019 the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
       (JVSCD) adopted a resolution that requires water efficiency standards for any new area
       that has been annexed into their district. In addition, they asked that communities that are
       part of the district adopt the standards. This includes most of Draper. According to Mr.
       Fox the standards pertain to both landscape and irrigation design and are fairly strict. The
       JVSCD asked that residential landscapes (both front and back yards) have no more than
       35% of the area of the landscape be used for turf, that the use of local plants is prioritized,
       and the use of turf in the park strip is restricted if it is less than eight feet in width. In
       addition, home builders are asked to demonstrate these landscaping requirements at their
       model homes, and provide their landscape plans to home buyers. The JVSCD stated
       similar requirements for industrial and commercial spaces with additional guidelines on
       irrigation design and metering.

       In adopting the JVSCD’s policies, staff would be required to review landscape plans for
       all new residential construction which would include residents’ yards. Mr. Fox explained
       that this level of involvement is unprecedented and felt it invasive to residents. He further
       voiced concern regarding both the approval and enforcement of landscaping plans.
       Because of the specificity of the proposed plans by the JVSCD in regards to irrigation
       standards, current staff does not have the expertise to approve the plans. A landscape
       architecture would need to be hired.

       Mr. Fox explained that after reviewing the proposed standards internally, staff felt they
       would not be able to enforce the standards for residential areas, but that the City was
      already voluntarily adopting these guidelines in the development of new public and
      commercial spaces, including SunCrest Park. It was his recommendation to adopt the
      JVSCD’s standards for city and commercial spaces and to begin to enforce the standards
      regarding the future landscaping of park strips and medians.

      The Council recognized that if water use practices continue as is, with the increase in
      development, there will not be enough water to meet the area’s future demands and needs.
      Therefore, steps do need to be taken to change landscaping practices to reduce water usage.
      It was agreed that this could start with city projects so that the City could serve as a model.

      A resident in attendance explained that when they lived in Las Vegas, the city would pay
      a certain amount per square foot for residents to remove sod from their park strips and
      replace with rocks. Very few people, however, took advantage of this. It wasn’t until it
      was made a city policy and enforced that people complied.

      It was noted that there are currently two incentive programs for residents to change their
      park strips and apply local scape standards to residential properties in Draper City. There
      was discussion about the tradeoffs for different landscaping on the park strip. It was
      recognized that park strips throughout the city do use a lot of water, but that grass is easier
      to maintain than zero scape options.

      In summary, the Council agreed with Russ Fox’s proposed course of action: the City would
      adopt the JVSCD’s standards, require developers to demonstrate the standards in the model
      homes of new developments, and begin to address transitioning parking strips. In addition,
      the Council asked staff to engage in more PR so that there is greater communication and
      visibility surrounding water usage to residents.

2.0   Discussion: Jordan River Boat Launch by David Dobbins

      David Dobbins explained that there are currently five different places where one can launch
      a kayak onto the Jordan River. He inquired if the Council was interested in Draper City
      constructing a boat launch at Rotary Park.

      The Council was in strong support of this initiative and discussed available matching grants
      to fund the project. Mr. Dobbins explained that it was previously believed they would
      need to buy a parcel of private property that the Jordan River Trail passed through, but that
      situation was resolved, so those funds could be allocated to the boat launch project. He
      also explained that the cost of the project would likely be less because they would not need
      to invest in supporting infrastructure because Rotary Park already exists.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, notified the Council that during the
      public comment portion of the meeting they would hear from Kuwahara Farms about their
      placement of asphalt millings on their property. This action was taken outside of city code.
      Therefore, the City issued a warning letter, along with an extension to remove the materials.

                                          Page 2 of 12
      Kuwahara Farms, however, is approaching the Council to make an amendment to city code
      so that they would be in compliance. This would allow temporary parking surfaces to exist
      for short-term events.

      There was some discussion about precedence of the allowance of non-impervious parking
      surfaces in Draper. Ms. Oliver explained the City’s code does require non-penetrating
      surfaces such as asphalt or concrete. That said, it is common for car dealerships to store
      their inventory on non-impervious surfaces such as dirt or asphalt millings.

      Ms. Oliver believes that there is utility in allowing these alternative surfaces. She
      requested that the Council issue a staff-initiated amendment to be able to modify the text
      to consider non-asphalt surfaces for certain circumstances. The staff would then look at
      conditional use permits and the outlined zones to allow just for vehicle inventory to be
      stored on non-asphalt surfaces, but would exclude these types of surfaces for event parking.

      The Council questioned why the desired amendment was so limited in scope to vehicle
      inventory and noted several places in which the City is utilizing non-impervious surfaces
      (asphalt millings and gravel) as parking lots. They felt that unless there was a clear reason
      for the code and if the City itself wasn’t in compliance, that the code should be changed
      more broadly to allow for these alternative surfaces.

3.2   Councilmember Vawdrey asked the Council to pass a resolution to make Draper a
      HERitage City, celebrating 150 years of women voting.

3.3   Councilmember Green stated that he wanted to get Little Valley out of the TRSSD
      (Traverse Ridge Special Service District). There was discussion about what qualified them
      to be a part of the TRSSD in the first place and how the payment of impact fees of different
      communities might impact their eligibility to be a part of the district.

3.4   Councilmember Summerhays was interested in Deer Ridge being reincorporated into a
      conservation easement. Instead of selling the property to developers he would like to see
      this land turned into a park or recreational area. He was particularly interested in preserving
      the accessibility to city water.

3.5   Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, provided an update on construction in the area.
      13800 South should be completed. 11950 South opened between State Street and 150 East.
      The signal at Manilla Drive and Traverse Ridge Road will be erected and will cause some
      congestion during that process. In addition, the construction of a culvert will begin on
      Lone Peak in January 2020 in preparation for the construction project later in the year.
      Further, there will be an open house at City Hall to discuss the construction on 1300 East
      from Highland Drive to 13200 South. The Council asked if the construction will impact
      the Highland intersection. This was outside of the construction area for the project.

Business Meeting

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

                                          Page 3 of 12
2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Pastor Nate, Corner Canyon Church, offered the prayer.

2.2   Fred Lowry led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Recognition: Corner Canyon High School Boys Cross Country 6A State Champions

      The Corner Canyon High School Boys Cross Country team was recognized for their
      achievements. Not only were they 6A State Champions this year, setting six new state
      records, the team competed at the National Championship in Portland, Oregon where the
      top 20 teams in the nation compete in a single race. Only five Utah teams have ever
      qualified for the event in the past 15 years and only two teams have made it to the podium
      as one of the top teams in the nation. Corner Canyon added their name to the list, finishing
      third in the nation.

      The Mayor read an email sent to him from someone who attended the event in Oregon
      acknowledging how well the boys from Corner Canyon represented Draper City. He then
      congratulated Coach Devin Moody and the seven boys who represented the City. Those
      in attendance were awarded a certificate and had their picture taken with the Council.

4.0   Presentation: Police Department Holiday Card Winners. Presented by Chief John
      Eining

      Chief John Eining of the Draper Police Department presented their Holiday card winners.
      Each year the police department runs a contest amongst all the fifth-grade students in
      Draper to design a card that they use to send out to all of the other departments in the state.
      To pick the winners Chief Eining goes through all of the submitted cards and picks his top
      six. These are then taped to his door and everyone in the police department votes on the
      six selected. The contest’s second runner up was awarded to Camden Simons from Summit
      Academy. The first runner up was awarded to Destiny Cox from American Preparatory
      Academy. The 2019 contest winter was Kianna Durant from St. John the Baptist.

      Each winner shook Chief Eining’s hand and was photographed with their artwork and the
      Council.

5.0   Presentation of the 2019 Popular Annual Financial Report (PAFR) by Jared
      Zacharias

5.1   Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director, explained that the report is a mixture of the
      Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) and the current operating budget. The
      intent of the report is to allow the citizenry to have a basic understanding of where the City
      stands financially, as well as some of the basic demographics of the City. He explained
      what each page communicated including: (1) the City’s efficiency in staff usage compared
      to other cities, (2) basics about how a city is organized and operated, (3) an overview of

                                          Page 4 of 12
      the City’s financial situation as a whole, (4) allocations of the general fund that was
      supported by tax revenue, (5) how much a citizen paid per month in property taxes to
      support specific services like the police or fire department, (6) fee based taxes and funds
      and (7) recent accomplishments of city departments.

      The report highlighted two key points. First, the report explains that the sales tax base was
      good for a city of Draper’s size and brought in 170% of what the property tax brings in for
      city earnings. This explained why Draper has been able to refrain from increasing property
      taxes since 2007. The other significant point highlighted was that Draper’s property bond
      rating had been upgraded to AA status which allows Draper to borrow funds if needed at
      the best rates possible. The report will be posted to Twitter, Facebook and the City’s
      website.

5.2   Councilmember Summerhays asked a question that was not discernable in the audio. Mr.
      Zacharias explained that they had not collected data relevant to Councilmember
      Summerhays’s question to include it in the report.

6.0   Public Comments

      To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted
      to items not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person.
      Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the
      City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item
      on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called.

6.1   Sarah Morris, resident, and Alex Kuwahara, from Kuwahara Farms requested a staff-
      initiated text amendment to allow the continued use of asphalt millings for parking during
      their temporary events such as their annual pumpkin patch and to allow them to sell flowers
      on sight during their two month growing season. Ms. Morris explained that currently the
      road base is against city code and that the cost to remove it could potentially run the farm,
      which has existed in Draper since the 1970s, out of business. Mr. Kuwahara pointed out
      that the road base was currently used in local parks and recreation sites throughout the City.
      Ms. Morris pointed specifically to Galena Park and Peterson Farms in Riverton as places
      that have the road base because of the limited period of time the farms are open to the
      public.

7.0   Consent Items
      a.    Approval of November 19, 2019, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b.    Approval of the 2020 Annual Meeting Schedule
      c.    Approval of Agreement # 19-269, Assessment in Lieu for Fort Creek
            Subdivision, for the public frontage improvements on Fort Street for the Fort
            Creek Subdivision, per Draper City Municipal Code 9-27- 110(C).

7.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the consent items. Councilmember
      Lowery seconded the motion.



                                          Page 5 of 12
7.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinances #1414 and #1415, Holt/Housley Big Willow
      Creek Phase 6 Zone Change and Land Use Amendment, on the request of Bryon
      Prince, representing Ivory Development, for a land use map amendment from
      Residential Low-Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a zone change
      from RA1 to R4 for 4.12 acres of property located at 535 West and 551 West 11400
      South.

8.1   Councilmember Lowery motioned to move this item to the end of the meeting.
      Councilmember Summerhays seconded the motion. A roll call vote was taken with
      Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The
      motion passed unanimously.

8.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, Planner, oriented the Council to the location of the Big Willow Creek
      Development. The applicant would like to re-zone two properties that are just east of the
      Big Willow Creek Development that have historically been accessed from a private road
      off of 11400 South and currently have accesses from the private road that connects to new
      roads within the development. The properties are currently within the City’s low-density
      land use zone which supports one to two units per acre. The applicants would like this
      changed to medium density zoning, which permits two to four units per acre which would
      match the surrounding property. With this, the zoning would change from R1 to R4 zoning.
      The planning commission made a positive recommendation for both the land use
      amendment and re-zoning on a five to zero vote.

8.2   Bryon Prince, Ivory Homes, was willing to answer any questions that the Council had. He
      explained that should the Council approve the land use and re-zoning amendments, it is
      Ivory Homes’ plan to purchase the properties and include them in their Big Willow Creek
      Development plans.

      Councilmember Green asked if Ivory Homes had obtained all of the parcels in the area to
      ensure that there would not be anomalous pieces of property. Mr. Prince noted that there
      are three properties that Ivory Homes does not currently have control of: the Holt and
      Housley properties that are up for re-zoning tonight and the Lindquist property that was re-
      zoned to R4 just north of the properties under discussion. Ivory Homes is in negotiation
      with the heirs of the Lindquist property to try and obtain this parcel as well.

      According to Mr. Prince, gaining these parcels would allow Ivory Homes to modify their
      plan to be more density neutral. Instead of building a cluster of town homes they would
      put more single family households on quarter acre lots.

8.3   Mayor Walker opened the meeting for public comment. No one came forward so
      Mayor Walker closed the meeting for public comment.




                                         Page 6 of 12
8.4    Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinances #1414 and #1415, Holt/Housley
       Big Willow Creek Phase 6 Zone Change and Land Use Amendment. Councilmember
       Vawdrey seconded the motion.

8.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1417, vacating a Slope Protection Easement,
       vacating a slope protection easement on Marion Vista Drive, just East of Minuteman
       Drive.

9.1    Scott Cooley, Director of Public Works oriented the Council to the area of concern. He
       explained that when Marion Vista Drive was constructed that there were several easements
       on the surrounding properties, including the area of discussion. Developers have requested
       that the easement be vacated. He explained that because the road has already been
       constructed there really is not a purpose for the slope easement.

9.2    Councilmember Green asked if the City would get consideration or payment back for
       vacating the easement. Mr. Cooley said no.

9.3    Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor Walker
       closed the public hearing.

9.4    Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1417, vacating a Slope
       Protection Easement. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Public Hearing: Approval of a Local Consent for Single Event Alcohol License to Icon
       Culinary - Sips Under the Sea.

10.1   Christina Oliver, Director of Community Development, noted that this was a single event
       request for February 14, 2020. She noted the Council should expect similar requests as the
       legislation has changed. Draper City does not limit the number of single event requests.
       The event met Draper City Municipal Code requirements of its entrance being at least 200
       feet from a community location.

10.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor Walker
       closed the public hearing.

10.3   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Local Consent for Single Event Alcohol
       License. Councilmember Summerhays seconded the motion.

10.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                         Page 7 of 12
11.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1416, vacating a Public Right-of-Way
       along a portion of 12100 South, vacating Public Right-of-Way at 690 East 12100 South in
       the Draperville Plat.

11.1   Scott Cooley, Director of Public Works, oriented the Council to the area under discussion.
       The property owner asked that the City vacate the right-of-way. He explained that if the
       public right-of-way was vacated, there would be plenty of space for the existing roadway
       and any improvements the City might make in the future.

11.2   Councilmember Green asked clarification that Mr. Cooley was certain that if the City ever
       expanded the road that they would not need the area in question. Mr. Cooley confirmed.

11.3   Councilmember Lowery wondered if the action could set a precedent and start a chain
       reaction. Mr. Cooley responded that when the Draper Plat was recorded it gained unusually
       wide right-of-ways. Relinquishing the right-of-way simply takes away that usage right, but
       the City would still own the property. For the resident to acquire the property, which Mr.
       Cooley noted was their intent, the City would have to surplus the property and the resident
       would have to purchase it.

       Councilmember Green assumed the easement began at 700 East and extended to 300 East.
       He asked if the Council is likely to see more requests for the properties affected along the
       street. Mr. Cooley acknowledged this was possible.

       After it was clarified that this particular landowner wants the easement lifted so that they
       could purchase the property to the road, Councilmember Summerhays asked if it was the
       resident’s intention to develop the rear of the property. Mr. Cooley answered that if the
       resident purchased the area under discussion they would have the acreage for the rear of
       the property to be a flag lot.

11.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

11.5   Shane Carter, resident and property owner of area in question, explained that he has gone
       through all of the steps the change the property from R1 to R2 and is prepared to purchase
       the land from the City once the vote is passed to acquire area.

11.6   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

11.7   Councilmember Green stated that he does not support making the area R2 because of
       previous appeals in the area. It was his impression that the neighborhood has
       communicated that they want to limit property sizes to one acre.

11.8   Mayor Walker explained that if there is no motion topic will carry over to the next City
       Council meeting as an Action Item.




                                          Page 8 of 12
11.9   Approval of Ordinance #1416 failed due to lack of a motion. Ordinance #1416 will be
       continued to the next City Council meeting as an Action Item.

12.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1409, vacating a Detention Basin Easement,
       Detention Basin Easement is located on Lot 1 of the Southam Estates Subdivision.

12.1   Scott Cooley, Director of Public Works, explained that when the subdivision was put in
       there was a need for a detention basin but the City did not have any of the storm drain
       improvements that were needed to accommodate the flows. Since the construction of
       13800 South had been completed, including all storm water improvements, the basin under
       discussion had been disconnected from the City’s system. Given the City’s lack of need
       for the area, the owners of the property have asked that the City vacate the easement.

       Councilmember Summerhays said that there have been several other basins that the City
       has not needed in which the City has vacated and returned to residents.

12.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

12.3   DeVerl Glines, resident, explained that he would like to take over the property to reduce
       the weeds and make it a nice piece of his yard.

12.4   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

12.5 Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1409, vacating a Detention Basin
      Easement. Councilmember Lowery seconded the motion.

12.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

13.0   Action Item: Amending the Approval of the Jenson Farms Phase 1 Final Plat,
       amending the Jenson Farms Phase 1 final plat approval by dividing Phase 1 into two
       phases: 1A and 1B. The property is generally located at 11875 South 700 West in the
       R4 (Single Family Residential) zoning district.

13.1   Maryann Pickering, Planner, re-oriented the Council on the proposed project. She
       explained that in October of 2017 the development agreement was approved for the project.
       In May of 2018 the preliminary plat was approved. In July of that year an amendment was
       made to the agreement with final approval a week later. When this amendment was made
       it separated phase one of development into two phases, phase 1a and phase 1b. The map
       with the final plans did not reflect this language. Tonight’s motion corrects that error. In
       addition, the applicant is requesting clarification that the developer can build 27 homes and
       that the applicant has a temporary construction and public access easement.

13.2   Tim Gough, applicant, was willing to accept questions. There were none.




                                           Page 9 of 12
13.3   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Jenson Farms Phase 1 Final Plat
       amendment. Councilmember Summerhays seconded the motion.

13.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

14.0   Action Item: Approval of the 8th Amendment to the Master Development Agreement
       for Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain, and Lakeview Heights, to exchange
       property and adjust the property boundary to decrease the degree of slope for the
       private road.

14.1   Russell Fox, Assistant City Manager, noted that this is an amendment to the Mercer
       Mountain Estates Development Agreement to adjust the boundary of the development area
       to accommodate for changes in the slope of the road. The original plan for the road had a
       sharp curve, so the City’s engineering department recommended a modification to bring
       the road down to an eight or nine percent slope.

14.2   Councilmember Green asked if the modification was truly necessary, as a matter of public
       safety. Councilmember Lowery asserted that she remembered the Council had requested
       a change be made because the previous proposal had that road at 14-percent, the steepest
       road in Draper.

       Mr. Fox explained that in response to the Council’s initial request, the developer was trying
       to reduce the amount of fill used in the road leading into the development.

       Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, clarified the road, as currently proposed and outlined
       in red, does meet the City’s code at a 12-percent grade. However, because of the
       topography of the landscape the curve is heavily shaded and experiences a lot of snow
       drifting. Because of these hazards, the City recommended that they consider an alternative
       option.

14.3   Councilmember Lowery moved to approve the 8th Amendment to the Master
       Development Agreement for Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain, and
       Lakeview Heights. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

14.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

15.0   Action Item: Review and Alignment of the Compensation of the Position of an Elected
       Officer.

15.1   David Dobbins, City Manager, explained that the City tries to periodically review the
       salaries and compensations for elected officials. It had been several years since they had
       considered this for the Mayor. He presented a table of how Draper’s compensation
       compares to other part time mayors in the area and showed that Draper’s compensation is
       lower than other areas. He outlined that to review the Mayor’s compensation the Council

                                          Page 10 of 12
       would need to move to set a public hearing (which he recommended to occur on either the
       January 14th or January 21st meeting) and then at that time they could go over the details of
       that compensation.

       Councilmember Summerhays asked when the Council had reviewed compensation last.
       Mr. Dobbins reminded the Council that they had made some changes. Mr. Dobbins
       reminded them that the position had been restructured, but that no changes had occurred
       and if the Council wanted to review the position more details could be provided at the
       public hearing.

       Councilmember Green noted that when the Council made changes two years ago he
       incorrectly phrased the motion to only change the mayor’s flat salary rate and failed to
       reflect desired changes in vehicle allowance.

15.2   Councilmember Lowery moved to continue this item as a Public Hearing on January
       14, 2020. Councilmember Summerhays seconded the motion.

15.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

16.0   Action Item: Approval of Agreement #19-270, for Recycling Services with Momentum
       Recycling, LLC, this agreement is for monthly curbside glass recycling.

16.1   Robert Markle, Public Works, responded to the Council’s request for the City to look into
       glass recycling. The department conducted research and determined that Momentum
       Recycling was the only available provider for the service. They currently have a contract
       drafted. Residents would be directed to sign up for the service on Momentum’s website
       and would receive a bin within seven to ten days. Momentum would than pick up their
       glass on a monthly basis. The glass would then be transported to their recycling facility in
       Salt Lake where it would be re-made primarily into fiberglass insulation, but also some
       bottles and abrasives.

       The only way that the City would be involved is to verify once someone has subscribed to
       the service that they are a Draper resident and utility customer, their payment history, etc.
       Momentum Recycling is already utilized in Salt Lake City, Sandy and other places in the
       county. In order to make the program worth it in Draper they would need 125 residents to
       subscribe. Because of this it is anticipated that the program would not start until March.
       Residents would pay at a monthly cost of $8.00/month with $7.25 going to Momentum and
       $0.25 in City revenue. It would be a four year contract.

       An additional item being discussed in the contract are glass pods, and arrangement of four
       cans, in public or business spaces. There would be a $600 start-up fee, followed by an
       $8.00/month service fee, or $32.00 per pod. There would be flexible service frequency that
       could be defined based on how quickly the pods filled up.




                                          Page 11 of 12
       Currently, the bin behind city offices goes through Momentum. Draper has seen an
       increase in its usage each year since 2016. According to Momentum, the addition of
       curbside pick-up does not reduce use of public bins like this. It was noted that the City’s
       rate is going down from $15 a ton of glass received to $5 per ton because of changes in the
       market.

       SunCrest was specifically discussed given its distance from Draper City proper. Currently,
       if a low number of residents subscribe for curbside pickup in SunCrest, the contract does
       not require Momentum to provide the service, but would require them to provide and
       service a couple of pods. It was recommended that the SunCrest HOA be contacted to help
       encourage residents to enroll in the program to ensure that pick-up makes sense for
       Momentum and SunCrest feels included in service opportunities provided to the rest of the
       city.


16.3   Councilmember Lowery moved to approve Agreement #19-270, for Recycling
       Services with Momentum Recycling, LLC, with all options. Councilmember
       Summerhays seconded the motion.

16.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Summerhays, and
       Vawdrey voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

17.0   Adjourn to a Closed Meeting to discuss property acquisition and/or litigation

17.1   Mayor Walker stated a need for Closed Session for Property Acquisition and/or Litigation
       discussion
.
17.2   Councilmember Summerhays moved to adjourn to a closed meeting to discuss
       property acquisition and/or litigation. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the
       motion.

17.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmember Lowery, Summerhays, and Vawdrey
       voting in favor. Councilmember Green voted no. The motion passed 3 to 1.

17.3   The City Council meeting adjourned at 8:14 p.m.




                                         Page 12 of 12
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                Upload Date   Type
Res. 20-06                 1/8/2020      Cover Memo
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 20-06


               A RESOLUTION APPOINTING NATE SHIPP AS A MEMBER
               OF THE DRAPER CITY ARENA ADVISORY BOARD

        WHEREAS, the City is authorized to establish boards, commissions, and committees within
the city as deemed appropriate by the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, members of the Draper City Arena Advisory Board are appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the Mayor desires to appoint and the Council hereby consents to the
appointment of Nate Shipp as a member of the Arena Advisory Board.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1.    Appointment. Nate Shipp is hereby appointed to serve on the Draper City
Arena Board from January 14, 2020, to January 31, 2024.

        Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Resolution is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 14TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020.




ATTEST:                                                DRAPER CITY



___________________________                            __________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                          Mayor Troy K. Walker
                        YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:
Date: January 14, 2020
Re: Draper Academy TC – Text Amendment Request

Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a text amendment for the TC (Town Center) zone area to allow a
private school with up to 15 students.

The Planning Commission heard this item at their December 12, 2019 meeting and made a positive
recommendation on a vote of 5-0.
The findings are as follows:

The findings for approval as are follows:

1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification
for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general
plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental
to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design,
and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient
justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to
public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning,
design, and engineering practices.
ATTACHMENTS:
Description       Upload Date   Type
Ord 1419          1/8/2020      Cover Memo
PC Staff Report   1/8/2020      Cover Memo
                                         ORDINANCE NO. 1419

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
         RELATING TO DRAPER ACADEMY.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted Land Use and Development Code to guide
development within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of Land Use and Development Code regarding the private schools in the TC (Town Center) zone; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.         Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that
the proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code in regards to the private
schools in the TC (Town Center) zone: 1) The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives
and policies of the city's general plan. 2) The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose
statements of the zoning ordinance. 3) The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 4) The proposed
amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan. 5) The
potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to
public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit. 6) The proposed text
amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering
practices.

        Section 2.       Revision. Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code
are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.




Ordinance No. 1419                                    1                                         Draper Academy
                                                                                                Text Amendment
        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF     , 2020.

                                                        DRAPER CITY


                                                        _____________________________
                                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                              YES                      NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1419                                  2                                       Draper Academy
                                                                                            Text Amendment
                                               EXHIBIT A

9-11-110: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

TABLE 9-11-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
(Except CSD Zones)

                                                             Zones

                                                                                 O-
     Uses          CN     CC      CR     CG     CI     CBP       CO1     CO2     R        TC    DC   CS

Public and civic
uses:

     Private        C      C       C      C      C       C           C    C      C        NP    NP   C
     school                                                                               C10




Notes:
1. Subject to the provisions of section 9-11-090 of this chapter.
2. Limited to no more than 1 drive-through lane.
3. In existing historic structures only.
4. Subject to the alcohol provisions per title 6, chapter 4 of this Code.
5. Without gasoline sales.
6. Only on the corner of Bangerter Highway.
7. A single drive-through lane allowed subject to issuance of a conditional use permit.
8. With no kennel services.
9. No outdoor kennels or catteries.
10. Limited to no more than 15 students.
                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                            December 2, 2019

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: December 12, 2019

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      Draper Academy TC – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.:  TEXTMAP-781-2019
         Applicant:        Christine Kremer and Bret Steel
         Project Location: 12390 South 800 East
         Current Zoning:   TC (Town Center) Zone
         Acreage:          118.8 Acres (Approximately 5,174,928 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a text amendment for the purpose of amending
                           Draper City Municipal Code Section 9-11-110 to allow a private school
                           with up to 15 students within the TC (Town Center) zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a text amendment for the TC (Town Center) zone area to
allow a private school with up to 15 students.

The applicant is looking to locate a private school at 12390 South 800 East. This property was developed
as the Connect Us Site Plan in 2006, and contains two historic homes that have been converted to
commercial use. One of the homes would be used as the school.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Town Center land use
designation for the subject property and proposed amendment zone area. This category “advances the
traditional town center character by supporting the preservation and adaptive re-use of existing structures,
the preservation of existing natural features, new development that blends in with existing conditions,
architectural standards befitting a town center destination, and site design standards that promote
walkability and human scale.”

The proposed amendment affects the TC zoning classification. The purpose of the TC zone is to “provide
a method for implementing special provisions found within the general plan and the Draper City
conservation area master plan regarding the establishment and promotion of a historic core area of the
community characterized by stringent design standards for buildings, public spaces, site design and




Draper Academy TC                                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-781-2019
Text Amendment Request                               1
landscaping with a harmonious mix of commercial uses, limited high density residential uses and civic
areas.”

The TC zoning designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Town Center land use designation. The TC zone abuts the property on the east and south sides, the OR
(Office Residential) zone abuts on the south, the RM1 (Multi-family Residential) zone abuts on the north,
and the RA2 (Residential Agricultural) zone abuts on the west.

Text Amendment. The applicant is looking to operate a small private school for children with social,
emotional, and/or academic challenges. The intent of the school is to provide small classes or one-on-one
lessons to help educate children who struggle in a traditional school environment. Private schools are
defined by the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) as follows:

         9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:
         PRIVATE SCHOOL: A school serving at least two (2) of any of the grades K through 12 which
         is not part of the public education system, and does not exclusively include any privately owned
         or run preschool for children, but which may include a privately owned or run preschool as an
         accessory or secondary use to the school.

The proposed text amendment would allow a private school in the TC zone subject to a conditional use
permit (CUP) and limit private schools to 15 students. A private school requires a CUP in most other
commercial zones. This permit will allow the city to require mitigation for each proposal to ensure
adequacy in parking and access. The amendment, as written, will also prevent a large school from
opening up in the TC zone, which could impact the potential area for store front commercial and office
space within the City’s traditional core. The proposed language for the amendment can be found in
Exhibit E of this report.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a text amendment request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                 title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                 determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                 overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                 practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the text
amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Draper Academy TC                                                                    App. # TEXTMAP-781-2019
Text Amendment Request                               2
Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the text amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the text amendment
submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
              plan.
    2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
    3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
    4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
              or the general plan.
    5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to
              be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
              benefit.
    6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
              planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan.
    2.        The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance.
    3.        The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
    4.        The proposed amendment will create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or
              the general plan.
    5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be
              detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
    6.        The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of
              urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Draper Academy TC                                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-781-2019
Text Amendment Request                                3
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Draper Academy TC Text Amendment, as requested by Christine Kremer and Bret Steel, to allow
private schools in the TC zone, application TEXTMAP-781-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated December 2, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for Draper Academy TC Text Amendment, as requested by Christine Kremer and Bret Steel, to
allow private schools in the TC zone, application TEXTMAP-781-2019, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019 and as modified by the findings below:

         1. List any additional findings …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Draper Academy TC Text Amendment, as requested by Christine Kremer and Bret Steel, to allow
private schools in the TC zone, application TEXTMAP-781-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated December 2, 2019.




Draper Academy TC                                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-781-2019
Text Amendment Request                             4
                                            EXHIBIT A
                                       DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.        Requiring a CUP will allow the City to evaluate each request on a case by case basis to
                 ensure that parking and access concerns are mitigated.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.        The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
                 limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
                 water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;
                 Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve
                 this property.
            a.   An institution or school has significant traffic at the drop off and pick up times, often with
                 vehicles stacked along adjacent streets waiting for site access. These impacts can be mitigated
                 to some extent by site design, beginning and ending times scheduled at different times than
                 typical peak traffic in the area, or other conditions of the site approval. The typical threshold of
                 peak vehicle trips where a school would have significant traffic impact is at approximately 100-
                 peak hour vehicle trips. The main streets within the TC zone are Pioneer Road and Fort Street
                 in the downtown area. During existing peak times, there are significant delays at the
                 intersections within the TC zone. However, a private school may have offset peak times that
                 may not increase the existing delays in these areas.
            b.   Connectivity with the parcel is onto both 800 East and Pioneer Road, adequate access for the
                 intended use. The site was previously approved for a different commercial use and is not
                 expected to be modified with the proposed private school use. This request could generate an
                 additional 20 peak hour trips onto those street for the proposed use. This level of additional peak
                 traffic would not be a significant increase of traffic – since the previous commercial use already
                 had contributed that approximate level of traffic.
            c.   The existing site is adequately served by storm drainage facilities. Verification of drainage
                 functionality and compliance is required when a site has a change of use proposed. Provisions
                 for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application,
                 and shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
                 Municipal Code.
            d.   Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision or
                 site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities
                 are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
            e.   Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision or site plan application
                 will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide
                 service for the proposed uses.

Legal Division Review.

       1.        The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
                                           EXHIBIT E
                                       LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-11-110: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

TABLE 9-11-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
(Except CSD Zones)

                                                             Zones

                                                                                 O-
     Uses          CN     CC      CR     CG     CI     CBP       CO1     CO2     R        TC    DC   CS

Public and civic
uses:

     Private        C      C       C      C      C       C           C    C      C        NP    NP   C
     school                                                                               C10




Notes:
1. Subject to the provisions of section 9-11-090 of this chapter.
2. Limited to no more than 1 drive-through lane.
3. In existing historic structures only.
4. Subject to the alcohol provisions per title 6, chapter 4 of this Code.
5. Without gasoline sales.
6. Only on the corner of Bangerter Highway.
7. A single drive-through lane allowed subject to issuance of a conditional use permit.
8. With no kennel services.
9. No outdoor kennels or catteries.
10. Limited to no more than 15 students.
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:
Date: January 14, 2020
Re: Silverhawk Subdivision – Zone Change Request

Comments:

This application is a request for approval of a zone change for approximately 3.68 acres located on the south
side of 13200 South, at approximately 1110 East 13200 South and 13260 South 1162 East. The property is
currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimums). The applicant is requesting
that a zone change be approved to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimums) zone.

The Planning Commission made a positive recommendation in a 5-0 vote at their December 19, 2019 meeting.
The findings are as follows:

For approval:

1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of
the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways,
parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
and wastewater and refuse collection, are adequate.

For denial:

1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity
of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property; and
4. The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways,
parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
and wastewater and refuse collection, are not adequate.
ATTACHMENTS:
Description                                                         Upload Date            Type
Ord 1420                                                            1/9/2020               Cover Memo
PC Staff Report                                                     1/9/2020               Cover Memo
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 1420

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF DRAPER
         CITY FOR APPROXIMATELY 3.68 ACRES OF PROPERTY FROM RA1
         (RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL, 40,000 SQUARE FOOT LOT MINIMUM) TO
         RA2 (RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL, 20,000 SQUARE FOOT LOT
         MINIMUM), LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 1110 EAST 13200 SOUTH AND
         13260 SOUTH 1162 EAST WITHIN DRAPER CITY, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS
         THE SILVERHAWK SUBDIVISION ZONE CHANGE.

        WHEREAS, pursuant to State law, Draper City has adopted a Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map
to guide the orderly development and use of property within the City; and

        WHEREAS, from time to time it is necessary to review and amend the Zoning Map to keep pace
with development within the City and to ensure the provision of a variety of economic uses; and

       WHEREAS, the proposed zone change set forth herein has been reviewed by the Planning
Commission and the City Council, and all appropriate public hearings have been held in accordance with
Utah law to obtain public input regarding the proposed revisions to the Zoning Map; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has reviewed and made a recommendation to the City
Council concerning the proposed amendment to the official Zoning Map of Draper City, and the City
Council has found the proposed zone change to be consistent with the City’s General Plan.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH:

         Section 1.      Zoning Map Amendment. The following described real property located at
approximately 1110 East 13200 South and 13260 South 1162 East within Draper City, Salt Lake County,
State of Utah, previously zoned RA1 as shown on the Draper City Zoning Map, as depicted in Exhibit “A”
hereto, are hereby changed and rezoned to RA2:

Parcel: 28-32-451-051




Ordinance No. 1420                                1                                  Silverhawk Subdivision
                                                                                              Zone Change
Parcel: 28-32-451-053




Contains 160,300 Square Feet or 3.68 Acres

        Section 2.        Severability Clause. If any part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance and
all provisions, clauses and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 3.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF     , 2020.

                                                          DRAPER CITY


                                                          _____________________________
                                                          Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder




Ordinance No. 1420                                   2                                    Silverhawk Subdivision
                                                                                                   Zone Change
 VOTE TAKEN:                 YES   NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1420       3              Silverhawk Subdivision
                                                 Zone Change
                                      EXHIBIT A

                     SILVERHAWK SUBDIVISION ZONING MAP AMENDMENT




Ordinance No. 1420                        4                        Silverhawk Subdivision
                                                                            Zone Change
                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                             December 9, 2019

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: December 19, 2019

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Silverhawk Subdivision – Zone Change Request
          Application No.:   TEXTMAP-874-2019
          Applicant:         Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises
          Project Location:  1110 East 13200 South and 12360 South 1162 East
          Current Zoning:    RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone
          Acreage:           3.68 Acres (Approximately 160,300 ft2)
          Request:           Request for approval of a zone change from the RA1 (Residential
                             Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimums) zone to the RA2
                             (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimums) zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a zone change for approximately 3.68 acres located on the
south side of 13200 South, at approximately 1110 East 13200 South and 12360 South 1162 East. The
property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimums). The
applicant is requesting that a zone change be approved to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000
square foot lot minimums) zone.

There are two properties included as part of this request:

          Parcel 1: 28-32-451-053
          1110 East 13200 South
          0.68 acres
          House built in 1941

          Parcel 2: 28-32-451-051
          12360 South 1162 East
          3.00 acres
          House built in 1984




Silverhawk Subdivision                                                               App. # TEXTMAP-874-2019
Zone Change Request                                    1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low-Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property. This category includes the following characteristics:

          1. Very large lot single-family neighborhoods and ranchettes allows for the enhancement of
             Draper’s rural character.
          2. Equestrian uses and privileges may exist in certain areas.
          3. Environmentally design clustered housing
          4. Some natural features and cultivated vegetation is apparent and special care is required in
             order to preserve those features and areas.

The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately one dwelling
unit per acre. The purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its
surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited
numbers of animals and fowl.”

The RA1, RA2, RH (Residential Hillside), and MPC (Master Planned Community) zoning designations
are identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the Residential Low-Medium
Density land use designation. The properties abut the RA2 zone on the west and south sides, the RA1
zone to the east, and both the RA1 and RA2 zone to the north.

Proposed Zone Change. The applicant is proposing to rezone the property to the RA2 zone. The RA2
zone is considered a large lot single-family zone. This zone is a preferred zone for the properties
Residential Low/Medium Density land use and shares the same purpose statement as the RA1 zone. It
also contains animal rights similar to the RA1 zone. The minimum lot size for the zone is 20,000 square
feet. The adjacent subdivision, Sunwood Ranch, is also zoned RA2 and features lot sizes that are around
half acre.

The applicant has provided a concept site plan, found as Exhibit E of this report, showing a new private
roadway accessed from 13200 south, serving five lots, with the existing house on 1162 East maintaining
access from the existing private lane. This concept plan has not been reviewed for compliance with code,
and if this application is successful, fully engineering drawings will be required for review as part of a
subdivision application.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a zone change request is found in
Sections 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

          1. Map Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                 development in the vicinity of the subject property;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                 overlay zone;
              d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
              e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including,
                 but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,




Silverhawk Subdivision                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-874-2019
Zone Change Request                                   2
                    schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
                    collection.
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the zone
change submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the zone change submission. Comments from these divisions,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the zone change
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                    general plan;
          2.        The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                    development in the vicinity of the subject property;
          3.        The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
          4.        The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property; and
          5.        The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
                    limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
                    stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are
                    adequate.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                    general plan;
          2.        The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
                    development in the vicinity of the subject property;
          3.        The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property; and
          4.        The facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
                    limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
                    stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection, are
                    not adequate.


MODEL MOTIONS




Silverhawk Subdivision                                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-874-2019
Zone Change Request                                     3
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the zone change, as requested by Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises for Silverhawk
Subdivision Zone Change, application TEXTMAP-874-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated December 9, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the zone change, as requested by Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises for
Silverhawk Subdivision Zone Change, application TEXTMAP-874-2019, based on the findings and
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 9, 2019 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the zone change, as requested by Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises for Silverhawk
Subdivision Zone Change, application TEXTMAP-874-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated December 9, 2019.




Silverhawk Subdivision                                                          App. # TEXTMAP-874-2019
Zone Change Request                                  4
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The RA2 zone is considered a large lot single-family zone. This zone is a preferred zone
               for the properties Residential Low/Medium Density land use and shares the same purpose
               statement as the current zoning designation of RA1,

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
               but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
               schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
               collection; Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
               intended to serve this property.
               a. Connectivity with this parcel does not appear to be an issue, as it appears to have
                   adequate access to 13200 South, a minor collector classified street. Access to 13200
                   South would be permitted, with location and spacing provisions to be addressed with
                   any subdivision or site plan application. The anticipated increase in traffic is well
                   below the 100 peak hour trips that would require a Traffic Impact Study.
               b. Storm drainage facilities exist along 13200 South and are available. Provisions for
                   discharge into the public system or onsite storm drainage facilities will need to be
                   addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the
                   provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
               c. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
                   subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve from the
                   Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
               d. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision or site plan
                   application will require a commitment to serve from WaterPro that facilities are
                   adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT E
CONCEPT SITE PLAN
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From:
CC:
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                                          Upload Date   Type
Council Packet - FY2020 3rd Quarter Re-open Budget   1/10/2020     Cover Memo
                  REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                          Mayor & City Council
From:                        Bob Wylie, Finance Director
Date:                        January 14, 2020
Subject:                     3rd Quarter (Jan 2020) Budget Amendment for FY 2019-2020
Applicant Presentation: None

Staff Presentation:          Bob Wylie, Finance Director

RECOMMENDATION:

Approve Resolution #20-03 amending the budget for fiscal year ending June 30, 2020 as proposed.



BACKGROUND AND FINDINGS:

See attached staff report.



PREVIOUS LEGISLATIVE ACTION:

Resolution #19-36 adopting Draper City budget for fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Resolution #19-54 amending Draper City budget for fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Resolution #19-68 amending Draper City budget for fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.


FISCAL IMPACT: Finance Review: ________

       See attached staff report



SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
   Resolution #20-03
   Staff report with supporting documentation
                                         RESOLUTION NO. 20-03

        A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE ADOPTED BUDGET OF DRAPER CITY
        FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019-2020.


        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City has adopted Resolution No. 19-36 which adopted the
final budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020, in accordance with the
requirements of the Utah Code Annotated; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City wishes to amend the fiscal year 2019-2020 budget;
and

         WHEREAS, a public hearing to consider the appropriations has been noticed and held and all
interested persons were heard, for or against the appropriations; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City hereby finds this action in the best interest of the
public’s health, safety and general welfare.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.       Purpose. The purpose of this Resolution is to amend the budget of Draper City, as
approved and finalized by Draper City Resolution No. 19-36.

        Section 2.   Authorization. The Mayor is authorized to sign any agreements to implement the
budget amendments adopted by this Resolution.

         Section 3.       Adoption of Amendments. The budget amendments attached hereto and made a
part of this Resolution shall be, and the same hereby are adopted and incorporated into the budget of Draper
City, Utah for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 and ending June 30, 2020, in accordance with the
requirements of the Utah Code Annotated.

        Section 4.       Filing of copies of the Budget Amendments. The Budget Officer is authorized and
directed to certify and file a copy of said budget amendments in the office of the City Recorder which
amendments shall be available for public inspection.

         Section 5.        Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Resolution is held invalid, or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution, and
all sections, parts, and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 6.        Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage.




Resolution No. 20-03
Date 1/14/2020                                     1                                            Budget
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE 14th DAY OF JANUARY, 2020.

                                        DRAPER CITY


                                        _____________________________
                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                             YES               NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember Lowery

 Councilmember Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Resolution No. 20-03                2
Date 1/14/2020
                                     Draper City
               FY2020 3rd Quarter Budget Amendments – January 2020
                                  January 14, 2020


• FY20-22               The City Council is considering amending the annual compensation of the Mayor. Draper
      Mayor’s           City Council discussed the item on December 10th and set January 14th as the public
      Compensation      hearing at which all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
                        Funding for this request will come from an increase in Sales Tax Revenue.
                                  Monthly Auto Allowance @$400.00 per month                        $ 4,800
                                  Participation in City Health Insurance $1,200 per month          $14,400
                                  Annual amount of the requested salary compensation               $19,200
                                  FY2020 pro-rated amount (Feb. – June)                            $ 8,000




• FY20-23               Draper City Historical Preservation Committee was awarded a grant under the Certified
                        Local Government (CLG) program which was designed for rehab work on the National
      Historic
                        Register-listed Joseph Mickelsen House. The grant was for $10,000 and was awarded to
      Preservation
                        the City in 2018. The City received the reimbursement of this grant in October 2019. A
                        portion of the qualified expenditures were incurred in the current fiscal year (FY2020).
                        This budget item will amend DHPC budget to reflect the expenditure and
                        reimbursement.
                        Funding for this request will come from the CLG Grant.
                                   Amount of the requested budget amendment is $6,500
                                      Draper City
                FY2020 3rd Quarter Budget Amendments – January 2020
                                   January 14, 2020
                          Draper City Parks and Recreation is requesting funding of $500,000 for an “All Abilities
• FY20-24
                          Playground”. This amount was approved by the City Council when the city applied for a
      Adaptive            TRCC Grant in August 2019, which Draper City received grant funding in the amount of
      Playground          $550,000. The funding would be paid to SLCO which would be the contractor for the
                          playground.
                          Funding for this request will come from Park Impact Fees and a grant from Salt Lake
                          County.
                                       Amount of the requested budget amendment is $500,000



• FY20-25                 Draper City has been awarded a grant from the State of Utah, Division of Air Quality to
      Electric Charging   install four electrical car charging systems. The estimated cost for installing these four
                          stations is $68,000.
      Stations
                          The city will need to fund $44,500 from an appropriation from the General Fund.
                          Funding for this request will come from the following:
                                           State of Utah - UDAQ ..………………………………….…..$23,500
                                           General Fund Balance Appropriation……...…………$44,500
                                           Amount of the requested budget amendment is $68,000.


• FY20-26                 Draper City Fire Department has a reserve ambulance that is utilized during high-volume
      Ambulance           call times. The current reserve ambulance is increasingly unreliable and is in to be
                          retrofitted using the existing chassis.
                          Funding for this request will come from the Ambulance Fund, Fund Balance Appropriation.
                                        Amount of the requested budget amendment is $185,000
                                       Draper City
                 FY2020 3rd Quarter Budget Amendments – January 2020
                                    January 14, 2020

• FY20-27                  The buildout of the 3rd floor of the Police annex building in near completion. Staff is
      Police Building      requesting funding for the exercise equipment that will be installed. The Police
                           Department will be using this area for officer training and physical fitness
      3rd floor Exercise
                           requirements. Along with the police use of the facility, city staff will also be able to
      Equipment
                           use the equipment. Funding for this request will come from a Justice Assistance Grant
                           (JAG) for $8,000 and $40,000 from the health insurance rebate from PEHP. This
                           rebate is calculated on several criteria (risk pool, experience rating, employee
                           engagement). Draper City has the approval from PEHP to use the rebate money to
                           support wellness initiatives and activities that incentivize employees to take
                           preventative and cost saving measures.
                                           Justice Assistance Grant                           $ 8,000
                                           PEHP Annual Rebate                                 $40,000
                                           Amount of the requested budget amendment is $48,000



• FY20-28                  In the current FY2020 budget, the city has an approved project – Corner Ridge Dr. Storm
      Storm Water          Drain (CIP18-15) for $70,000. City staff is requesting that this project be closed and the
      Detention Basin      funds that are appropriated for it be moved to Storm Water Detention Basin Improvements
      Improvements         (CIP-0036). No additional funding is being requested.
                           Funding for this request will come from existing CIP18-15.


• FY20-29                  In the current FY2020 budget, the city has an approved project –
                           Jordan River Trail Connection (CIP180085) for $248,500. City staff is
      Jordan River
                           requesting that this project be re-appropriated and rename the project
      Boat Launch
                           to Jordan River Boat Launch. No additional funding is being requested.
                                      Draper City
                FY2020 3rd Quarter Budget Amendments – January 2020
                                   January 14, 2020

• FY20-30                Draper City Fire Department is requesting funding for a reserve Self-contained Breathing
      Fire Department    Apparatus (SCBA). The Fire Department ahs no spare or reserve SCBA to put into service in
      Self-contained     the event of damage or malfunction in the course of their normal use, or for purposes of the
      Breathing          annual maintenance required for the SCBA.
      Apparatus (SCBA)   Funding for this request will come from the General Fund, Fund Balance Appropriation
                                        Amount of the requested budget amendment is $18,000.



• FY20-31                The City Manager is requesting funding for an outside Communication Consultant
                         to assist with day-to-day communication efforts to better inform residents and
      Communication
                         businesses of City issues and projects.
      Consultant
                         Funding for this request will come from additional Sales Tax Revenue.
                                         Amount of the requested budget amendment is $50,000.


• FY20-32                Staff is requesting additional funding to reclassify the Public Relations Specialist to
      Communication      Communications Director. The annual cost of the item is $25,000. Prorated for
      Director           remaining FY2020 is $8,000.
                         Funding for this request will come from additional Sales Tax Revenue.
                                         Amount of the requested budget amount is $8,000.


• FY20-33                See attached Staffing Chart
      Staffing Chart
                                                              Draper City, Utah - Adopted Annual Budget
                                                                    For Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2020

STAFFING DOCUMENT

Division & Job Title                  GRADE   FY18    FY19    FY20    Notes:
GENERAL FUND
Legislative Department
  Mayor & Council
    Mayor                                24    1.00    1.00    1.00
    City Council                         23    5.00    5.00    5.00
 TOTAL LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT                  6.00    6.00    6.00


Executive Department
  City Manager
    City Manager                         23    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Assistant City Manager               22    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Assistant to the City Manager        16    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Administrative Intern                 6    0.20    0.20    0.20
                                               3.20    3.20    3.20
  City Recorder
    City Recorder                        17    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Deputy Recorder                      14    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Passport Technician                  11    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Office Clerk I/II                   8/9    0.72    0.72    0.72
                                               3.72    3.72    3.72
  Public Relations
   Communications Director               20                    1.00 Reclassified from Public Relation Spec.
   Public Relations Specialist           15    1.00    1.00           Reclassified to Comm. Dir.
   Social Media Intern                    6    0.20    0.20    0.20
                                               1.20    1.20    1.20


  Youth Council
   Youth Council Adviser                  7    0.17    0.17    0.17
                                               0.17    0.17    0.17


  Legal
    City Attorney                        23    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Assistant Attorney                   17            1.00    1.00
    Legal Assistant                      12    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Law Clerk                            12    0.50
                                               2.50    3.00    3.00


  Information Technology
    Information Technology Director      21    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Network Administrator                18    1.00    1.00    1.00
    Applications Administrator           15                    1.00
    Help Desk Temp                       13    0.20
                                               2.20    2.00    3.00

                                                                                                     Page 1
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Tom Draper
CC:
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

Comments:

Shane Carter applied to vacate a portion of 12100 South in front of his property at 690 East 12100 South. City
staff reviewed the application to determine any potential impacts to the traffic circulation identified in the Draper
City Master Transportation Plan and found 12100 South is not a classified street and therefore is a local street.
The remaining portion of public right-of-way allows 12100 South to be improved to city standards at a later
time.
ATTACHMENTS:
Description                                                           Upload Date            Type
Ordinance - vacating a portion of 12100 South ROW                     12/3/2019              Cover Memo
                                   ORDINANCE NO. ____

       AN ORDINANCE VACATING A PORTION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
       WAY FOR A PORTION OF A STREET KNOWN AS 12100 SOUTH
       LOCATED IN FRONT OF PARCEL # 28-30-283-002

        WHEREAS, the City has received a request by the property owner requesting a portion
of real properties known as the 12100 South public right-of-way in front of Parcel # 28-30-283-
002 be vacated as a public street; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the request for the public right-of-way
vacation and has found there is not a current or future demand for the public right-of-way; and

        WHEREAS, the proposed public right-of-way vacation set forth herein has been
reviewed by the City Council, and all appropriate public hearings have been held in accordance
with Utah law to obtain public input regarding the proposed public interest in the section of
street.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH:

       Section 1. Findings: The City Council finds that neither the public interest nor any
person will be materially injured by the vacation and there is good cause for the vacation.

       Section 2. Public Right-of-Way Vacation. The following described portion of the
12100 South public right-of-way located in front of Parcel # 28-30-283-002, and as shown on the
attached map, no longer serves a public purpose and can be vacated as a public right-of-way:

                               See EXHIBIT A and EXHIBIT B

      Section 3. Severability Clause. If any part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all provisions, clauses and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 4. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or the vacation is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, ON THIS 10th DAY OF DECEMBER 2019.


ATTEST:                                            DRAPER CITY

By:____________________________                    By:_______________________________
   Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                      Mayor Troy K. Walker
VOTE TAKEN:                YES   NO

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Summerhays

Councilmember Vawdrey

Councilmember Weeks

Mayor Walker
  EXHIBIT A
Legal Description
EXHIBIT B
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                     Upload Date   Type
Res. 20-01, Mayor Pro Tempore   1/9/2020      Cover Memo
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 20-01

       A RESOLUTION OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ELECTING A
       MEMBER TO SERVE AS THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE


      WHEREAS, the Draper City Municipal Code provides the election of a Mayor Pro
Tempore to preside in the Mayor’s absence; and

       WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City Council to elect a Mayor Pro Tempore to act in the
absence of the Mayor.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1.               Election.    The Draper City Council has                     elected
_______________________ to serve as the Mayor Pro Tempore for the year 2020.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, THE 14TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020.


                                                 DRAPER CITY




                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:




Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                         Mayor Pro Tem

2010 – Troy Walker

2011 - Alan Summerhays

2012 – Bill Rappleye

2013 - Jeff Stenquist

2014 – Bill Colbert

2015 – Marsha Vawdrey

2016 – Jeff Stenquist

2017 – Bill Rappleye

2018 – Marsha Vawdrey

2019 – Tasha Lowery
MEMO
To: City Council Meeting
From: Laura Oscarson
CC: City Council
Date: January 14, 2020
Re:

ATTACHMENTS:
Description                          Upload Date   Type
Res. 20-02 Council Assignment List   1/10/2020     Cover Memo
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 20-02

       A RESOLUTION BY THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL APPROVING THE
       CITY COUNCIL ASSIGNMENT LIST FOR 2020


       WHEREAS, the City Council reviews and makes changes to the Council Assignment List
every year; and

       WHEREAS, it is the desire of the City Council to approve for Council Assignment List
for 2020.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Approval. The Draper City Council hereby approves the Council Assignment
List for 2019 hereto attached as Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Resolution, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

       Section 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
passage.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, THE 14TH DAY OF JANUARY, 2020.


                                                 DRAPER CITY




                                                     Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:




Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                                                                                                                     Exhibit A
Draper City Council Assignments 2020




                                                                          Marsha Vawdrey

                                                                                           Tasha Lowery
                                              Mayor Walker




                                                                                                          Cal Roberts
                                                             Mike Green




                                                                                                                        Fred Lowry
City Boards/Commissions                                                                                                                                                           Meeting Location and Times
Arena Advisory Board                                                                                                                  4th Wednesday of every month at 6:00 p.m. at City Hall (Administration Conference Room)
Historic Preservation Commission                                                                                                      3rd Wednesday of every month at City Hall at 5:00pm (Administration Conference Room)
Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee                                                                                               1st Wednesday of every month at City Hall at 7:00pm (Administration Conference Room)
Planning Commission                                                                                                                  2nd and 4th Thursdays of every month at City Hall at 5:30pm (Council Chambers)
Tree Commission                                                                                                                      1st Monday of every month at City Hall at 8:00am (Administration Conference Room)
Emergency Preparedness Committee                                                                                                     1st Wednesday of every month at City Hall at 4:00pm (Administration Conference Room)
                                                                                                                                     Youth Council meets once or twice a month /
Youth Council/Peer Court                                                                                                             Peer Court meets the 1st and 3rd Thursdays of every month at 5:45pm in the Court at City Hall



City Agencies:
                                                                                                                                     Meets as needed- same time as Council Meeting
Municipal Building Authority President
Municipal Building Authority Vice President                                                                                          Meets as needed- same time as Council Meeting
Redevelopment Agency Chair                                                                                                           Meets as needed- same time as Council Meeting
Redevelopment Agency Vice Chair                                                                                                      Meets as needed- same time as Council Meeting



Special Assignments:
                                                                                                                                     Meets the 2nd Tuesday at noon of every month at Murray City Hall. (similar to COG or COM)
Association of Municipal Councils
Economic Development                                                                                                                 Meets as needed - staff will attend
Chamber of Commerce                                                                                                                  Meets as needed. Support the Chamber and attend lunches/events when possible.
Trans-Jordan Landfill Alternate Member                                                                                               Meets the 3rd Thursday at 7:30 am at the District Offices- 604 West 6960 South
Jordan River Commission                                                                                                              Meets the 1st Thursday at 9:00 am at Utah Cultural Celebration Center- 1355 W. 3100 S.
Mountainland Association of Governments-MAG                                                                                          Meets the 1st Thursday of the month at 5:30 pm- Utah County location
Draper Foundation                                                                                                                    Meets the 2nd Wednesday of every month at 7:00pm at City Hall (Admin Conference Room)
Senior Center

Air Quality Board                                                                                                                    Meets 1st Wednesday of every month at 1:30 pm, 195 North 1950 west, Room 1015 SLC
Legislative Policy Committee (LPC)                                                                                                   Every Monday at noon during the Legislative session, various Mondays throughout the year.
Canyons Education Foundation                                                                                                         Meets every other month, 3rd Thursday at 7:30 am- Admin Bldg. 9361 South 300 East
SSLVMAD Mosquito Abatement                                                                                                           Meets the 2nd Monday of every month at 2:00 pm- 7308 Airport Road
Mayor Pro Tem


Mayor Assignments:
                                              X
Utah Transit Authority Board
S.L. County Council of Governments (COG)      X
The Conference of S.L. Valley Mayors (COM)    X
Trans Com (Mayor Appointed through COG)       X
JPAC (Mayor appointed through COG)            X
WFRC (Mayor appointed through COG)            X
WFRC- RGC (Mayor appointed through COG)       X
