Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Mike Barker, City Attorney
CC:  Date: April 7, 2020
Re: Ordinance 14-27 Adopting Adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation Pertaining to Flag Lots Comments: The City Council has been informally looking into the issues surrounding the approval of and building on flag lots.
Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-504 allows the City Council, without prior consideration of or recommendation from the Planning Commission, to enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality if the City Council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest or the area is unregulated.
Such a temporary land use regulation may prohibit or regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval.
The Draper City Municipal Code states the following legislative intent regarding flag lots: "Flag lots for single-family residences may be allowed to accommodate the development of property that otherwise could not reasonably be developed under the regulations contained in this title or other titles adopted by the city. The primary purpose of this section is not to make development of property easier and more profitable. Rather, it is to serve as a last resort for property which may not otherwise be reasonably developed.” DCMC 9-27-090
Members of the City Council have expressed the sentiment the current  development standards regarding flag lots do not meet the goals and objectives of the zoning ordinance in that the current code does not adequately address the burden placed on existing residents surrounding a flag lot and approving new development on flag lots will only exacerbate the negative impacts of flag lots on existing residents.
Enacting a temporary land use regulation to study flag lots and how the City should address them will give staff up to 6 months to study the issue and present recommendations to the Planning Commission and City Council.  The temporary land use regulation would  prohibit new development applications proposing to erect, construct, reconstruct or alter any structure on a flag lot or proposing to subdivide land to create a flag lot pending the Planning Commission and City Council’s consideration and possible re-writing of applicable code sections and definitions.
The findings are as follows: The City Council finds a compelling, countervailing public interest in placing a temporary land use regulation to prohibit accepting new land use or development applications for the creation and development of flag lots until such time, not to exceed six months, as appropriate public hearings are held and amended provisions are presented to the Planning Commission and the City Council for review and adoption:
1. The development standards regarding flag lots do not meet the goals and objectives of the zoning ordinance in that the current code does not adequately address the burden placed on existing residents surrounding a flag lot .
2. A pproving new development on flag lots will only exacerbate the negative impacts of flag lots on existing residents.
3. Reviewing the development standards for flag lots to ensure the standards meet the current and future needs of the City and its residents. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord. 1427 3/30/2020 Cover Memo