                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                               August 5, 2020

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: August 13, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk – Text Amendment Request
          Application No.:    TEXTMAP-1039-2020
          Applicant:          Draper City
          Project Location:   City Wide
          Current Zoning:     City Wide
          Acreage:            City Wide
          Request:            Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify Draper City
                              Municipal Code Sections 17-5-030, 9-27-150, 9-32-030, 9-3-040, 9-5-090,
                              9-19-090, 17-2-020, 17-3-020, 9-22-040, 17-1-040, and 17-4-020 in order to
                              modify development access points requirements and reduce or eliminate the
                              requirement for paper submissions with applications.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify the development
access point requirements and reduce or eliminate the requirement for paper submissions with
applications.

The City has been reviewing the question about how to ensure that developments have the proper number
of access points for ingress and egress and what those access points should look like. The City posted a
Notice of Intent to amend the code back in March of 2020 in anticipation of these changes. After
spending the last few months reviewing the issue, Staff has prepared the attached Text Amendments.

In addition, this request includes some minor code changes that eliminate, or reduce, the amount of paper
submissions. With City Hall being closed to the public due to Covid-19, the City has moved to paperless
submissions. The text amendment would eliminate, or reduce, the requirement for paper in the Draper
City Municipal Code (DCMC) allowing the city to continue accepting paperless applications.


ANALYSIS

Text Amendment. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative copy of the




City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                        App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                 1
changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report.

Development Access Points. The modifications to development access points includes four code sections.
This report looks at each section individually.

DCMC Section 9-3-040 and 17-1-040: Definitions
The amendments will create a definition for access point. The definition will clarify that an access point is
an unrestricted access to residents, the public and emergency services. This means that an emergency only
access does not count as an access point into a neighborhood. Secondary access entrance is also include
and has the same definition as access point, in order to ensure there is not a discrepancy in the code.

     SECONDARY ACCESS ENTRANCE: See definition of Access Point.

     ACCESS POINT: A two-way roadway access into a subdivision or development that
     provides unrestricted access to residents, the public, and emergency services. This definition
     does not prohibit a gated community entrance that is designed to service residents, guests,
     and the general public.

DCMC Section 9-27-150: Private Rights of Way
The private right-of-way code sets standards for single-family detached dwelling units located on private
streets. Modifications will include clarifications that the section does not apply to two-family, townhome,
or multiple-family units. It will clarify when parking is allowed on a street. One-sided parallel parking is
allowed if the asphalt width of the street is 26-feet or greater, and parallel parking on two sides of the
street is allowed if the asphalt width is 32-feet in width or greater.

The Planning Commission is the body that typically reviews and approves deviation requests. The private
rights-of-way code allows a deviation to installing curb, gutter, and sidewalk on an existing private street
if the subdivision is being expanded. The code, however; grants the City Council the authority to approve
such deviation. The proposed modification would move that authority to the Planning Commission.

Further changes include modifications to the required street cross sections. The code sets the width of the
street cross sections based on the number of units, with the width of the street widening as the number of
dwelling units on the street increases. Per the International Fire Code, 20-feet of drivable surface is
required for all streets for emergency access. The existing street cross sections for private streets includes
the gutter as part of that 20-feet of drivable surface. The Fire Department has indicated the 20-feet should
consist of asphalt. The modifications to the street cross sections will require 20-feet of asphalt, and then
the curb, gutter, and sidewalk standards. The width of the roadway will continue to get larger as the
number of dwelling units on the street increases.

DCMC Section 9-32-030: Development Standards
Chapter 9-32 of the DCMC regulates two-family, townhome units and multi-family developments. The
existing code references the International Fire Code to set the number of access points and requires
connection to existing streets. The proposed code will set the specific number of access points required
based on type of development and the number of units. For two-family and townhome dwelling units, one
access point is required for up to 30 units, with two access points required for 31 units or more. For multi-
family dwelling units, one access point is required for up to 100 units, with two access points required for
101 or more units. The code will still require connection to public streets. The code will also encourage
connection to private street networks, however; such connections shall only count as an access point if a
perpetual cross access easement is obtained and the access allows for unrestricted access to the public and
residents.




City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                            App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                2
DCMC Section 17-5-030: Streets
The subdivision regulations set the maximum number of dwelling units allowed on a dead end street. The
code allows up to 30 single-family units and up to 100 multi-family units on a dead end street. The code
will be modified to state that 30 single-family, two-family, and townhome units, and up to 100 multi-
family units are allowed on a dead end street or subdivisions with one access point. Further changes
clarify that any provided temporary turn around at the end of a stub road shall comply with engineering
standards and the International Fire Code.

Electronic Submittals.

DCMC Sections 9-5-090(D): Site Plan Review, 17-2-020: Submission, 17-3-020: Application and Fees,
and 17-4-020: Filing Deadline, Application and Fees
The amendment to electronic submittals will eliminate the requirement for single 11”x17” copy of the
application drawings for Site Plans, Concept Subdivision, Preliminary Subdivision, and Final
Subdivision. The code will simply state that an electronic copy is required.

DCMC Section 9-19-090: Geologic Hazard Studies and Reports Required
The number of paper submissions will be reduced for geo-technical and geo-hazard reports. DCMC
Section 9-19-090 requires five copies of these plans. The proposal is to reduce that to two copies. The
reason for reducing rather than eliminating the paper copies is because the City’s consultants want to
continue obtaining paper submissions. These submissions contain the wet stamp of the geo-technical
engineer who has created the report, and the City’s consultants want that copy of the report.

DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(6): Building Design
The last change that will eliminate paper submittals is to DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(6). This chapter
regulates building design. Developers are required to submit a material board with site plan applications.
This means they are providing physical samples of building materials in the colors proposed for
construction. The amendment would instead require a developer to submit color elevations which call out
the specific material type and color rather than submit a physical material board. The proposed change
does allow the Zoning Administrator to request a sample of a proposed material. This will allow the City
to review a request for a new type of material, if needed.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

           2. Text Amendments:
                a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                   city's general plan;
                b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                   ordinance;
                c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                   there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
                d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                   title or the general plan;
                e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                   overall community benefit; and
                f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                   practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices



City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                           App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                 3
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.         The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                     general plan;
          2.         The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                     ordinance;
          3.         The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
                     sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
          4.         The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                     title or the general plan;
          5.         The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not
                     to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
                     benefit; and
          6.         The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
                     planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.         The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                     general plan;
          2.         The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                     ordinance;
          3.         The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
                     not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;



City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                             App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                   4
          4.         The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or
                     the general plan;
          5.         The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to
                     be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall
                     community benefit; and
          6.         The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of
                     urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk Text Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-1039-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated August 5, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk Text
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-1039-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated August 5, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk Text Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-1039-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 5, 2020.




City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                   5
                    DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.


                              Digitally signed by Tom Draper
                              DN: C=US, E=tom.draper@draper.ut.us,                                                  Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky

Tom Draper                    O=Draper City, OU=Engineering,
                              CN=Tom Draper                                        Jennifer Jastremsky DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                       O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                       Date: 2020.08.06 10:55:15-06'00'
__________________________________
                              Date: 2020.08.06 11:49:44-06'00'
                                                                                   __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                                                Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                   Mike Barker
                                                                                                                     Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                              Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                                                                     DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City Attorney,
                              DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,

 Don Buckley
__________________________________
                              O="Draper City Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
                              Buckley
                              Date: 2020.08.06 11:13:27-06'00'
                                                                                   __________________________________
                                                                                                                     email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                                                                     Date: 2020.08.06 11:26:57 -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                        Draper City Legal Counsel

                              Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes

 Matthew T. Symes DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
                  O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
__________________________________
                    Date: 2020.08.06 15:20:32-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk                                                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-1039-2020
Text Amendment Request                                                         6
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

No Comments Submitted

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

None Comments Submitted

Fire Division Review.

None Comments Submitted

Legal Division Review.

None Comments Submitted
                                        EXHIBIT B
                                    LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS: & 17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

SECONDARY ACCESS ENTRANCE: See definition of Access Point.

ACCESS POINT: A two-way roadway access into a subdivision or development that provides
unrestricted access to residents, the public, and emergency services. This definition does not
prohibit a gated community entrance that is designed to service residents, guests, and the general
public.


9-27-150: PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY:
  A. Maximum Number Of Accessing LotsUnits: In any residential subdivision, a private right
of way shall provide access for no more than twenty (20) single-family lotsunits. Private rights of
way may also be approved for two-family units, townhome units, and multiple-family dwelling
developments, consistent with chapter 32 of this title.
  B. Width And Cross Section: The minimum right of way width and cross section design of a
private right of way shall be:
    1. Twenty-four feet (240') wide for two (2) to five (5) single-family residential lotsunits;
    2. Twenty six Thirty-one feet (3126') wide for six (6) to ten (10) single- family residential
lotsunits; and
    3. Thirty-sevensix feet (367') wide for eleven (11) to twenty (20) single-family residential
lotsunits.
    F. On Street Parking: On street parking shall be prohibited on a private right of way cross
section less than twenty six feet (26') wide. Parallel parking may be allowed on one side of a
private right of way if the cross section of asphalt is at least twenty six feet (26') wide. Parallel
parking may be allowed on both sides of a private right of way if the cross section of asphalt is at
least thirty-two feet (320') wide. Enforcement of on street parking restrictions shall be the
responsibility of the owners of the private right of way.

    J. Expansion Of Existing Subdivisions: Residential subdivisions approved prior to 2010 and
which are accessed by a private right of way may add more residential lotsunits consistent with
subsection B of this section. Deviations from adherence to the curb, gutter and sidewalk
requirements in subsection B of this section in such existing subdivisions may be granted by the
city council planning commission if:
    1. The existing subdivision has six (6) or more lotsunits; and
    2. The increase in the number of lotsunits does not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
existing single-family homes within the subdivision.


9-32-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
D. Site Plan, Mobility, And Street Treatment: Pedestrian and automobile circulation shall flow
in a logical manner and integrate neighborhood street connectivity.
2. The number of road connections and access points for a multiple-family project shall comply
with the following design standards and number of access points: shall be proportional to the
number of units according to the international fire code.
    a. Two-family units and townhome unit development: To encourage connectivity, multiple-
    family projects shall connect to public street networks and adjacent private street networks at
    all logical points.
         i. One access point is required for up to thirty (30) units.
         ii. Two access points are require for up to thirty-one (31) units.
    b. Multi-family unit developments, other than townhome unit dwellings:
         i. One access point is required for projects with up to one hundred (100) dwelling
               units.
         ii. Two access points are required for projects with one hundred and one (101) or more
               dwelling units.
    c. Multiple-family projects shall connect to existing public street networks or stubs.
    Connection to a private street network or stub is encouraged and shall include a perpetual
    cross access easement. Connection to a private street network or stub shall count as an access
    point if it allows for unrestricted access to the public and residents.
            db. Projects should strive to emulate the existing neighborhood street grid to provide
    more opportunities for street connectivity.


17-5-030: STREETS:
G. Subdivision Access and Dead End Streets: Dead end streets or subdivisions with one access
point Dead end streets shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family lots or units, two-family
units, and townhouse units, or up to one hundred (100) multi-family units, not including
townhouse dwellings. even though it may be intended that they eventually be extended to
connect with other streets in a manner which would eliminate the dead end. The provision of a
stub road which will eliminate the dead end in the future shall not permit additional units.
Additional lots and dwellings units may be served by such a dead end street at such time as its
dead end nature is eliminated. On such temporary dead end streets, a satisfactory temporary
turnaround area and recordable easement shall be provided at the end of the dead end street and
shall thereof to remain and be available for public use so long as the dead end exists. The City
may require iImprovements shall to be installed in temporary turnaround areas subject to
engineering standards and the International Fire Code. Access points and dead end streets shall
comply with all applicable codes. The Planning Commission may approve the platting and
construction of collector and arterial streets which are dead ends.


9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and processed as
    provided in this subsection:
  1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator in a form
     established by the administrator, along with any fee established by the city's schedule of
     fees. The application shall include the following information:
     d. A single paper copy set on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11” x 17”) and an identical
        single electronic copy set of development plans showing the information required in
        subsections D1d(1) to D1d(6) of this section. The information required by each
        subsection shall be shown on separate sheets,. Plans shall be drawn at a scale no smaller
        than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan sets shall be prepared, stamped
        and signed by the professional, licensed with the state of Utah, who prepared the
        drawings or is professionally responsible for the drawings content, including the
        engineering, landscaping and architectural drawings.


9-19-090: GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDIES AND REPORTS REQUIRED:
Any applicant requesting development approval on a parcel of land within a geologic hazard
study area or where there are known or readily apparent geologic hazards and the area is not
depicted on the geologic hazards study area maps, shall submit to the city five two (52) paper
copies and one electronic copy of a site specific geologic hazard study report.


9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:
 F. Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to
contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and
construction will add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.

 6. Sample Board: All projects shall submit color elevations that call out the specific building
   material type and color. The Zoning Administrator may require a sample board containing
   actual samples of all exterior surface materials in order to verify quality of material and
   conformance with the standards found within this section. including roofing materials, in all
   the colors that will be used. No photos shall be permitted.
17-2-020: SUBMISSION:

The subdivider shall submit one (1) 11-inch by 17-inch paper copy and an identical single
electronic copy of the proposed subdivision concept plan to the Draper City community
development department. The proposed concept plan shall be professionally prepared and
include the following items:


17-3-020: APPLICATION AND FEES:
A subdivider shall file an application for preliminary plat approval with the community
development department on a form prescribed by the city, together with one (1) paper copy on
eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") drawings and an identical single an electronic copy of
the preliminary plat, and the application fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule. No
application shall be scheduled for hearing before the planning commission until all required
information has been received and reviewed by the city staff.


17-4-020: FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES:
C. The subdivider shall file an application for final plat approval with the Community
    Development Department on a form prescribed by the City, together with one (1) paper copy
    on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") and an identical a single electronic copy of the
    proposed final plat, and associated final construction drawings required in section 17-3-030
    of this title.
