Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: February 13, 2020
Re: Nielsen’s Frozen Custard – Development Agreement Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a development agreement (Agreement) for approximately 0.70 acres located on the south side of Draper Parkway, at approximately 1462 East Draper Parkway. The property is currently zoned CC (Community Commercial) . The applicant is requesting that an Agreement be approved to allow for the redevelopment of the site from a bank building to a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner restaurant.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their January 23, 2020 meeting as an action item. It was determined after the meeting that the item should have been a public hearing, and therefore is being brought back before the Planning Commission as a public hearing item. The item has been properly noticed for a public hearing.
At the January 23, 2020 meeting the Planning Commission voted to forward a negative recommendation to the City Council with the following findings:
1. The proposed Agreement does not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2. The proposed Agreement does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area.
The main areas of concern discussed by the Planning Commission were signage, including neon signs and additional sign area, and landscaping deviations.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed development plans outlined in the Agreement meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2. The application complies with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
3. The proposed development plans will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
4. The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
For denial:
1. The proposed Agreement does not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2. The proposed Agreement does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/4/2020 Cover Memo