Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: March 10, 2020
Re: Nielsen’s Frozen Custard – Development Agreement Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a development agreement for approximately 0.70 acres located on the south side of Draper Parkway, at approximately 1462 East Draper Parkway. The property is currently zoned  CC (Community Commercial) . The applicant is requesting that a development agreement be approved to allow for the redevelopment of the site from a bank building to a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner restaurant.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their January 23, 2020 and February 13, 2020 meetings and has forwarded a negative recommendation on a 4-1 vote with the following findings:
1. The proposed Agreement does not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2. The proposed Agreement does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area.
The City Council reviewed this item at their February 18, 2020 meeting. At that meeting the City Council continued the item to allow for the applicant to bring back a compromise for the items which do not have an avenue for deviations already built within the code, i.e. signage and lighting.
Since the meeting, the applicant has met with staff to discuss the possible options. They have submitted an updated sign package, which is attached as part of the development agreement. The changes are as follows:
1. Comply with monument sign standards, with the exception of percentage of change of copy panel. The change of copy panel will be 60% of the sign area rather then the allowed 50%. The overall sign area will comply with code.
2. The awning sign has been removed.
3. The ice cream cone sign has been reduced in height by 2-feet and is 1-foot narrower. It is now 62 square feet in size vs the 78 square feet originally proposed. The cone extends above the roofline by 6-feet, 4-inches.
4. Neon lighting is still proposed.
The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed development plans outlined in the Agreement meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2. The application complies with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
3. The proposed development plans will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
4. The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
For denial:
1. The proposed Agreement does not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2. The proposed Agreement does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1422 3/6/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 3/4/2020 Cover Memo