                 The link to the agenda with the backup documents can be found at the
                    following link: https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes




                                  CITY COUNCIL AGENDA
    Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a Business Meeting
    on Tuesday, February 11, 2020, at 5:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers at 1020
    East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.

    The Agenda will be as follows:
    5:30 PM STUDY MEETING

    1.        Report: Semi-Annual City Deposits & Investment Report - December 2019,
              Bob Wylie
a
    2.        Presentation: Capital Improvement Projects, Rhett Ogden
a
    3.        Report: Police Department Annual Report, Chief John Eining
a
    4.        Council/Manager Reports
a
    5.        Closed Session: by motion
              The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a
              closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or
              mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the
              purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a

    7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

    1.        Call to Order

    2.        Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

    3.        Proclamation: February 12, 2020, as a Day of Hope
              Corner Canyon High School Hope Squad will give a brief presentation.
a
    4.        Recognition: Mandi Brady, Miss Draper Program Director
a

    5.        Public Comments
              To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
              restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
              minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
              submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
              Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
              should be held until that item is called.

    6.        Consent Items
              a.    Approval of January 14, 2020, and January 21, 2020, City Council
                    Meeting Minutes
              b.    Approval of a Small Cell Master License Agreement with SQF, LLC
                    Seeking City Council approval for a Master License Agreement with SQF, LLC
                    for the installation of small cell sites in the public right-of-way
              c.    Approval of Resolution #20-08
                    Resolution to appoint Cal Roberts as an alternate delegate to the Trans Jordan
                    Board of Directors replacing Alan Summerhays.
              d.    Approval of Resolution #20-09, amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule
                    Staff: Bob Wylie

    7.        Action Item: Approval of Ordinance #1413, amending Title 2 of the Draper
              City Municipal Code regarding the City Council, Mayor, City Manager,
              Legislation, Appointed Officers, and Taking Office. (Legislative Action)
              Staff report by Russ Fox
a

    8.        Adjournment
    SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

    I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City
    Council meeting to be held February 11, 2020, were posted on the Draper City Electronic
    Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us, the Utah Public Notice website at
    www.utah.gov/pmn, and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

    Date Posted: February 7, 2020
                                                     Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
                                                     Draper City, State of Utah
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or
services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or
laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
