Draft Minutes 010920
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD
ON THURSDAY, JANUARY 9, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS

PRESENT:              Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker,
                      Commissioners Kent Player, John Van Hoff, Mary Squire, Alternate
                      Commissioners Lisa Fowler and Gary Ogden

ABSENT:               Commissioner Traci Gundersen and Alternate Commissioner DeLaina
                       Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:         Mike Barker, Spencer DuShane, Christina Oliver, Jennifer
                      Jastremsky, Maryann Pickering, Pete Kane, Travis Van Ekelenburg,
                      Amie Salazar, Jake Sorensen and Brien Maxfield

ALSO PRESENT:          See sign in sheet



Business Meeting:

1.0      Citizen Comments: Andrew Adams, Chair, explained public hearing comments
         would be limited to three minutes per person per item. A spokesperson who had been
         asked by a group to summarize their concerns would be allowed five minutes to
         speak. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in
         writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.

      1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for December 12,
         2019 (Administrative Action).

         Motion re: Commissioner Mary Squire moved to approve the Planning
         Commission Meeting minutes for December 12, 2019 and Commissioner Ogden
         seconded the motion.

         Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor
         of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

      2. Action Item: Lofts at Creekside Final Plat Request (Administrative Action).
         A request by Dustin Kuttler for approval of a final plat request for an 18-unit
         condominium development. The subject property is located at approximately 13491
         S. Minuteman Drive in the RM2 (Residential Multi-Family) zoning district. Staff
         contact; Maryann Pickering at (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us.
         Application: SUBD-644-2019.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 9, 2020
Page 2

Maryann Pickering City Planner, gave a presentation. She showed on a screen where the end
of Minuteman Drive was. The land use was residential, high density and the zoning was
RM2. She showed the final plat to make the 18 units into condominiums.

Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker stated they were zoned for townhomes and they ended up
having issues and to change them to condominiums. He asked if it was an issue, they were
already building the condos.

Ms. Pickering replied they were already building the condos, but it was not an issue. They
had originally started building the town homes but were just going to make them into
condos instead. They were under construction.

Mr. Andrews asked if anyone had questions. He explained not much had changed since the
last meeting they saw this item.

       Motion re: Commissioner Andrew Adams called for a motion to approve SUBD
       644-2019. Commissioner Van Hoff moved to approve Lofts at Creekside final plat
       request and Commissioner Kent Player seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor
       of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

   3. Public Hearing: Pioneer Office Condominium Plat Amendment (Administrative
      Action).
      A request by Derek Wright for approval of a Plat Amendment in the CC (Community
      Commercial) Zone for a condominium conversion of the office building. The
      property is located at 527 E Pioneer Road. Application SUBD-890-2019. Staff
      contact: Pete Kane, 801-576-6335, pete.kane@draper.ut.us.


Planner Pete Kane gave a staff presentation. He explained this was a plat amendment to an
office that was already under construction. The first Plat plan was approved March 15, 2017
and the site plan was approved by the Planning Commission on July 12, 2018. The Plat
amendment would not change the use or the design of the building, it would just create a
condo association that would separate the two floors and make them separate units. This
would establish the lobbies in the building as common space. This was in the Community
Commercial Zoning District. He showed the proposed plat and explained the only change
was making the two floors separate units. He showed pictures of the current construction.
The recommended conditions were that 1. The requirements of engineering, public works,
building and fire division were met. 2. All requirements of geotechnical support were met
throughout the building. 3. The site improvements such as the parking lot be removed for the
mylar purpose.

The applicant, Derek Wright thought the presentation by Mr. Kane gave them a good idea
of their plans. He asked if anyone from the Planning Commission had any questions.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
January 9, 2020
Page 3

Commissioner Kent Player asked if there were financial advantages to making the building
into two separate condos.

Mr. Wright replied it made it so two businesses could use the building and share the cost. It
was more flexible for financing purposes.

       Chairperson Andrew Adams opened the public hearing.

       Chairperson Andrew Adams closed the public hearing.


       Motion re: Vice Commissioner Craig Hawker moved to approve the Plat
       Amendment request in the CC (Community Commercial) Zone and Mary Squire
       seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor
       of the motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

Mr. Adams asked if there were any questions before they adjourned the meeting.

Mr. Player asked about the Moab trip.

Mr. Adams replied Mr. Player was going to be able to go on the Moab trip. The people in
attendance would be Mr. Player, Ms. Gunderson, Ms. Fowler, and Mr. Adams.


   4. Adjournment: Andrew Adams moved to adjourn the meeting.

       The meeting adjourned at 6:44 p.m.
