                                          ORDINANCE NO. 1456

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
         RELATING TO FLAG LOTS

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code to
guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, on April 7, 2020 the City Council of Draper did find a compelling, countervailing
public interest to enact a temporary land use regulation to prohibit accepting new land use or development
applications for the creation and development of flag lots until such time, not to exceed six months, as
appropriate public hearings were held and amended provisions were presented to the Planning Commission
and the City Council for review and adoption; and

       WHEREAS, the Draper City Planning Commission did meet on September 3, 2020 and made
recommendations on proposed revisions to the Land Use and Development Code regarding Section 9-27-
090 Flag Lots to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of the Land Use and Development Code regarding Section 9-27-090 Flag Lots; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:


    Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that the
    proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code in regards to Flag Lots: 1.
    The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
    2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance. 3.
    The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient
    justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 4. The proposed amendment will not create
    a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan. 5. The potential effects of the
    proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health,
    safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and 6. The proposed text

Ordinance No. 1456                                     1                               Flag Lot TA – DCMC 9-27-090
                                                                                                    Text Amendment
    amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and
    engineering practices.


       Section 2.      Revision. The Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal
Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE ___ __ DAY OF         , 2020.

                                                           DRAPER CITY


                                                           _____________________________
                                                           Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                                 YES                       NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1456                                    2                              Flag Lot TA – DCMC 9-27-090
                                                                                                  Text Amendment
                                               EXHIBIT A

9-27-090: FLAG LOTS:
Flag lots for single-family residences may be allowed to accommodate the development of property that
otherwise could not reasonably be developed under the regulations contained in this title or other titles
adopted by the city. The primary purpose of this section is not to make development of property easier
and more profitable. Rather, it is to serve as a last resort for property which may not otherwise be
reasonably developed to outline the regulations that a flag lot must adhere to.
A. Factors: When property is subdivided, flag lots shall not be approved by right but may only be
allowed after considering under the following circumstances:
        1.    More than two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs shall be avoided;
        2.1. Whether When development of the property on a private lane in question under normal city
             utilizing existing zoning and subdivision regulations is reasonable and practical not
             possible; and
        2.    As a lot split or within subdivisions of fewer than 10 lots;
        3.    Where Ccreation of a flag lot should does not foreclose the possibility of future
              development of other large interior parcels that are not would be developable unless if a
              street is were extended to them across other adjacent properties subject to the street
              connection requirements found within section 17-5-030 (A); and
        4.    The flag lot does not have frontage on a classified street as defined by and illustrated in the
              Draper City Master Transportation Plan.
  B. Development Standards: When flag lots are permitted, they shall be subject to the following
conditions:
        1.    A flag lot as defined in Section 9-3-040 shall be comprised of a narrow staff portion that is
              contiguous with a wide flag portion.
        2.    The staff portion of the lot shall front on and be contiguous to a local street, whether public
              or private.
        3.    Two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs are prohibited.
        4.    The minimum width of the staff portion at any point shall be twenty feet (20') thirty feet
              (30’) comprised of a minimum of twenty feet (20’) of paved access width and five feet (5’)
              of landscaping located on each side of the pavement. However, a Ggreater staff width for
              lots within the sensitive lands overlay zone may be required by the fire marshal based on
              the access width requirements of the International Fire Code (IFC) or where required by the
              fire code.
        5.    The maximum length of the staff shall be five hundred feet (500') as measured from the
              street right of way line to the beginning of the flag portion of the lot. The flag portion of
              the lot shall begin at the property line or line segments which define the minimum front
              yard depth per the minimum listed setbacks for main buildings.
6.    The driveway access within the staff shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a minimum
      width of twenty feet (20’). Design of the driveway shall provide a manner for controlling
      drainage water acceptable to the city engineer. The load bearing capacity of the driveway
      may be required to be designed to support the weight of fire and emergency vehicles as
      required by the fire marshal and city engineer.
7.    The maximum grade of the staff shall not exceed twelve ten percent (12%) (10%) in the
      direction of intended traffic flow on the staff. The staff portion of the lot shall generally
      follow property contours except in the Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone where the
      maximum grade shall not exceed twelve percent (12%).
8.    For lots where the staff portion is over one-hundred fifty feet (150’) in length, sufficient
      turnaround space for emergency vehicles shall be provided and an easement for access by
      emergency vehicles will be required. The fire marshal shall review and approve the design
      and location.
9.    No building or structure shall be located within the staff portion of a flag lot.
3.10. The size of the flag portion of the lot shall conform to be greater than or equal to 1.25 times
      the minimum lot size requirement of the zone in which the lot is located, but in no case be
      less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet (15,000 ft²). Sufficient turnaround space for
      emergency vehicles shall be provided. The staff portion of the lot shall not be included in
      this minimum lot size calculation.
4.    No building or structure shall be located within the staff portion of a flag lot.
5.11. The front yard of a flag lot shall be on the side of the flag portion which connects to the
      staff and which is most closely parallel to the street that the staff connects to. Regardless of
      the zone, the minimum front yard setback shall be twenty five feet (25') and all other
      setbacks for main buildings shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20'). Setbacks for all main
      buildings shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from all property lines for all flag
      lots less than or equal to twenty thousand square feet (20,000 ft²) in size, and thirty feet
      (30’) for all flag lots greater than twenty thousand square feet (20,000 ft²) in size.
      Calculated lot sizes for this section do not include the staff portion of the lot.
12.   All accessory buildings and structures shall follow the regulations contained in section 9-
      10-040 except that accessory buildings and structures over two hundred square feet (200
      ft²) in size can be built no closer than fifteen feet (15’) to a neighboring property line.
13.   Landscaping shall be installed within the staff portion of the lot along each side of the
      access driveway pavement. Landscaping shall include a mix of live plant materials with
      vertical growth characteristics such as perennial grasses, shrubs, and small to medium sized
      trees. Xeriscaping with native and drought tolerant plants is encouraged.
6.14. Screen fencing may be required to be erected around the staff and flag portions of the lot.
      Fencing and landscaping shall comply with the limitations related to view obstructions
      listed in 9-27-080. Fencing along or around the staff portion shall not exceed three feet (3’)
      in height when abutting the front yard of an adjacent lot or parcel.
7.15. Fire hydrants shall be provided to serve the flag lot as required by the Utah state adopted
      fire code International Fire Code (IFC). Any fire hydrants located in the public rights of
      way shall be dedicated to the water provider for access to and maintenance of the hydrant.
             The fire chief shall review proposed flag lots to ensure adequate space and site
             configuration for turnaround of emergency vehicles.
       8.    All driveways located in the staff portion of the lot shall be paved within one hundred feet
             (100') of any preexisting house on a neighboring parcel.
       9.    Upon review, the city may require installation of curb, gutter and other drainage control
             measures in the staff portion of a flag lot to prevent runoff from entering neighboring
             properties.
       16.   The maximum height of main buildings on flag lots is limited to 2 stories and a maximum
             of thirty feet (30’).
       17.   Total lot coverage of flag lots is limited to no more than 35% of the area contained within
             the flag portion of the lot.
       10.18. Clear address signage must be installed and maintained at the street. , including notice
              that the driveway is a private right of way.
       11.19. When the staff of a flag lot exceeds the minimum width requirement of twenty feet (20'),
              Tthe developer shall construct frontage improvements along the entire width of the staff,
              in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 9-27-100 of this chapter and
              subsection 17-5-060B of this code.


Figure 9-27-090-1
