         Request for Proposal
To Provide Emergency Clean up Services




     Sandy City Fire Department
        And Metro Fire Agency
           November 2019




                  1
                                                 Sandy City
                                       10000 Centennial Parkway
                                             Sandy, UT 84070
                                Department of Administrative Services
                                          Division of Purchasing
                                             November 2019


REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL:

This is a formal solicitation for proposals, which will be opened privately and reviewed to determine that
the functional requirements of the Metro fire agencies are met. The Metro fire agencies shall be the
sole judge as to which bid constitutes the “lowest and/most responsible bid.” This request is initiated by
the Sandy Fire Department but will represent both Sandy Fire and the Metro Fire Agencies. Each
member city of the Metro Fire Agency will adopt the resulting contract respectively if desired.

                                          THIS IS NOT AN ORDER

PROJECT: THE METRO FIRE AGENCY EMERGENCY CLEAN UP SERVICES



REQUIREMENTS:

    •   Bids must be received no later than 11:00 AM MST, Thursday December 5, 2019 by the
        Purchasing Office at City Hall, 100000 Centennial Parkway, Room 330, Sandy, Utah, where they
        will be privately opened and reviewed. Proposals received after the deadline shall not be
        considered and will be returned to the bidder unopened.
    •   Proposals should reflect the best and most competitive offers. However, Sandy City reserves
        the right to negotiate best offers prior to final award.
    •   Mark proposals clearly “Emergency Clean Up Services” on the front of the bid envelope, along
        with vendor name and address.
    •   For further technical information contact Chief Bruce Cline at (801) 568-2936. For bidding
        questions, contact Alyssha Roseman, Sandy City Purchasing Agent at (801) 352-4477.
    •   Submit one original and two copies of your proposal.

The right is reserved to reject any and all bids, to waive any informality or technicality or to accept bids
deemed in the best interest of Sandy City Corporation. ALL BIDS ACCEPTABLE THAT MEET, EXCEED OR
ARE COMPARABLE TO THE SPECIFICATIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED.

Sandy City Corporation



Alyssha Roseman

                                                      2
Purchasing Agent

                                         Request for Proposal to

                                 Provide Emergency Clean Up Services

                                             November 2019

The Sandy City Fire Department (SCFD) and Metro Fire Agency (MFA) are accepting proposals for
contractors(s) to provide post-incident services to seal and board up residential and commercial
structures, provide clean up services due to fire, flood, mold, asbestos, lead and any other need at the
request of SCFD and MFA. The specific cost and service requirements are identified in the proposal
packet. Exhibit A shall be filled out and included with bid proposals.



Metro Fire Agency includes the following fire departments:

    •   Bluffdale City Fire Department
    •   Draper City Fire Department
    •   Murray City Fire Department
    •   Sandy City Fire Department
    •   South Salt Lake City Fire Department
    •   South Jordan City Fire Department
    •   West Jordan Fire Department
    •   West Valley City Fire Department

Responders must submit three copies of their response. All responses must be signed by an authorized
representative of the responder. The signature on the response signifies the responder’s intent to
comply with the terms, specifications, and conditions set forth in this Request for Proposal, unless
specific exceptions are explicitly noted on the face of the response. If an exception to any requirement
listed is needed, you must attach all documentation to explain your exception.



The intent of this Request for Proposal is to generally set forth the minimum acceptable requirements
for emergency clean up services. The successful responder(s) shall be obligated to enter into a binding
contract with the City. Only proposals submitted by responsible responders as defined by the City Code
will be considered. Proposals will be evaluated according to the satisfaction of the Scope of Work,
Proposal Contents and Evaluation Criteria. Response to this Request for Proposal is at the responder’s
sole risk and expense. The City anticipates selecting two or more of the responders, but there is no
guarantee that any responding proposal will be selected.




                                                    3
                                Sandy City Fire Department
                                    And Metro Fire Agency


                                        Request for Proposal to
                                Provide Emergency Clean Up Services


    I.      Introduction

Sandy City Fire Department (SCFD) is the provider of emergency services to the citizens of Sandy City.
SCFD is responsible for fire protection, emergency medical services and providing resources to best fit
the needs of Sandy citizens. Post-incident, it is our desire to complete the recovery process for affected
citizens and to facilitate a safe community.



As part of risk management there is a need to ensure that a residence or business structure and
contents are protected from unauthorized people and secondary damage caused by weather. Our
desire is to release a scene and free up SCFD resources to a professional company prepared to handle
the post-incident phase of the recovery process for affected citizens.



SCFD is seeking to identify and select an outside contractor(s) to perform the required services. SCFD
reserves the right to select two or more qualified contractors to be on a call out rotation.



    II.     Scope of Work

Proposals shall demonstrate contractor’s ability to perform the following services:

    A. Ability to provide physical security measures to all damaged areas including but not limited to:
       secure or protect exposed roof areas, doors and/or windows before leaving scene with
       appropriate material such as ply-wood, tarp, etc.
    B. Ability to provide security, including installing temporary fencing, caution tape, etc.
    C. For doors that need to be secured, contractor to provide a lock hasp and combination pad lock
       for each; for fencing, contractor shall provide a chain and combination pad lock. The code shall
       be provided to SCFD or its designee.
    D. Seal and board up services provided to affected party at no cost to SCFD.
    E. Provide light and heavy equipment as needed for the investigation of a fire.
    F. Provide shoring as needed to prevent collapse of structure.

                                                    4
    G. SCFD reserves the right to hire a contractor if emergency clean up services are required for a
       SCFD or Sandy City facility.



    III.    Proposal Content

Proposals shall contain the following:

    A. References: Provide references from three (3) successfully completed services at an emergency
       scene, including date and address of Incident, contact information for involved fire department
       or city, contact information for property owner and/or affected citizens.
    B. Project Team Staffing: Affirm that no employees working on the staff have ever been convicted
       of a felony. Provide contractor’s drug screening and background check policies and procedures.
       Provide ratio of full-time staff to contract labor. Describe qualifications, skills and experience of
       key employees.
    C. Contractor Requirements:
       1. Must maintain necessary equipment and materials at all times. Must be able to respond
           and provide services within on (1) hour of being contacted by a representative of SCFD, or
           SLC911.
       2. Must provide single-point-of –contact phone number available 24/7. A paging system is not
           allowed.
       3. Must be able to provide exceptional customer service, be able to adequately communicate
           with on-scene SCFD personnel, and have experience at the scene of an emergency.
       4. Must invoice according to the following:
           I. Contractor agrees to charge industry standard rates for all work performed and materials
           provided. Submit sample rate sheet.
           II. If the owner or tenant is not available, SCFD may choose to initiate the request for seal
           and board up services in the best interest of the property owner; contractor will not bill
           SCFD or Sandy City.
           III. SCFD may not know if property is properly insured at time of the call for board up
           service. If the affected property is uninsured, the contractor will not bill the affected citizen,
           SCFD or Sandy City.
           IV. Any invoice for contractor’s services is to be sent to the owner’s insurance company.
       5. Company shall comply with the insurance, bond and indemnification requirements set forth
           in Exhibit B.
       6. Company agrees to provide SCFD with an annual report, which includes but is not limited to:
           number and type of calls for service; summary of charges per call; report of customer
           complaints and/or billing or cost disputes.
       7. Any additional work done as a result of call for service, such as clean-up or restoration, is
           outside of the agreement between SCFD and contractor and is solely between contractor
           and affected citizen.
       8. Contractor agrees to abide by no chase policy. Contractor shall only respond when called by
           SCFD or SLC911. Contractor or Contractor’s representative may not be a past employee of
           SCFD.



                                                     5
    D. Company Overview
       1. Official registered name (Corporate, D.B.A., Partnership, etc.), address, main telephone
          number, toll-free numbers, and facsimile numbers
       2. Key contact name, title, address (if different from above address), direct telephone and fax
          numbers.
       3. Person authorized to contractually bind the organization for any proposal against this RFP.
       4. Brief history, including year established, affiliations or memberships, and number of year’s
          company has offered desired services.



    IV.     Evaluation Criteria / Proposal Review and Oral Presentation Assessment
    A. Written proposals will be evaluated on the criteria listed below. The selection will be made at
        the sole discretion of SCFD based on the following:
        1. The extent to which contractor’s proposal is responsive to SCFD stated requirements as set
            out in this RFP. 12.5%
        2. An assessment of the contractor’s ability to deliver the indicated services in accordance with
            the specifications set out in this RFP. 25%
        3. The contractor’s stability, experiences and record of past performance in delivering such
            services. 12.5%
        4. Availability of sufficient high quality contractor personnel with the required skills and
            experience for the required services. 12.5%
        5. Invoice and rate responses. 12.5%
        6. Oral presentation by the Contractor or an interview with the Contractor to supplement a
            written proposal. These presentations will be scheduled, if required, by the City
            Representative after proposals are received and prior to the award of the contract. 25%
    B. Three (3) copies of the proposal must be submitted.
    C. Proposals will be evaluated by representatives from SCFD and Sandy City Purchasing.

    V.      Form of Agreements Between the SCFD and Contractor

The final contract will be negotiated with the successful contractor(s). The anticipated Contract term
will be for the period of one year with the option for two additional one-year renewal periods.
Contractor(s) shall agree to comply with Utah e-verify requirements.

CONFIDENTIALITY

All responses, inquiries, and correspondence relating to this RFP and all reports, charts, displays,
schedules, exhibits and other documentation produced by the offeror that are submitted to the SCFD
and Sandy City Purchasing, as part of the proposal or otherwise, shall become the property of the SCFD
and Sandy City Purchasing when received by the SCFD and Sandy City Purchasing may be considered
public information under applicable law.




                                                    6
The SCFD is subject to the disclosure requirements of the Government Records Access and Management
Act, Title 63G, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated (“GRAMA”). The SCFD generally considers proposals
and all accompanying material to be public and subject to disclosure.




Any material considered by the offeror to be proprietary must be accompanied by a written claim of
confidentiality and a concise written statement of reasons supporting the claim. Blanket claims that
the entire RFP is confidential will be denied. The SCFD cannot guarantee that any information will be
deemed confidential. Under Section 63G-2-305 of GRAMA, if the offeror makes a claim of
confidentiality, SCFD, upon receipt of a request for disclosure, will determine whether the material
should be classified as public or nonpublic, and will notify the offeror of such determination. The offeror
is entitled under GRAMA to appeal an adverse determination.

The SCFD is not obligated to notify the offeror of a request to see the offeror’s proposal, and will not
consider a claim of confidentiality, unless the offeror’s claim of confidentiality is made in a timely
basis and in accordance with the GRAMA.




                                                     7
                                            “EXHIBIT A”
                                     Emergency Response Services

The following is a list of services/resources that may be required to execute Emergency Response
Services once contacted by SCFD. Indicate whether you will/will not be able to provide these services.
Also identify any of the work that you intend to subcontract to others and identify the proposed
subcontractors including names, specific assignments, and the qualifications of the subcontracting
company and its key personnel.




 Service                   Contractor                  Contractor              Subcontracted
                           Provided                    Cannot Provide


    General Board up
    Residential Water
        Extraction
        Dumpster
       Roof Tarping
        Emergency
          Fencing
       Commercial
           Water
        Extraction
        Fire Watch
    Asbestos Removal
      Lead Removal
        Emergency
          Shoring
     Light and Heavy
       Equipment*
    Provide After The
    Fire Booklet with
     Sandy Fire Logo
     And Information
*Light and Heavy Equipment: Back hoe, front end loader and dump truck, etc.




                                                   8
                                            “EXHIBIT B”
                  INSURANCE, BONDS and INDEMNIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR

           PARTIES CONTRACTING WITH SANDY CITY AND THE METRO FIRE AGENCY FOR:

                                  EMERGENCY CLEAN UP SERVICES

The contracting party shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract insurance against
claims for injuries to persons or damage to property which arise out of or in connection with the
performance of the work hereunder by the Contracting party, his agents, representatives,
employees or subcontractors. The cost of such insurance shall be included in the Contracting party’s
bid or proposal.

A. MINIMUM LIMITS OF INSURANCE

    Contracting party shall maintain limits no less than:

    1. GENERAL LIABILITY: $2,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence, personal injury and
       property damage, $3,000,000 aggregate. Broad Form Commercial General Liability is
       required. (ISO 1993 or better). Personal Injury, Premises-Operations.
    2. AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY: $2,000,000 per occurrence. “Any Auto” coverage is required.
    3. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION: Workers’ compensation statutory limits as required by the
       Workers compensation Act of the State of Utah and Employers Liability limits at a minimum
       of $1,000,000 each: Accident, Disease, Employee.
    4. PAYMENT & PERFORMANCE BONDS: The Company shall be bonded against theft of
       property at the incident scene in the amount of not less than $10,000.

B. DEDUCTIBLES AND SELF-INSURED RETENTIONS

   Any deductibles or self-insured retention exceeding 5% limit of policy must be declared to and
   approved by Sandy City. At the option of Sandy City, either; (1) the Insurer may be required to
   reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retention as respects Sandy City, its officer,
   officials and employees; or (2) the contracting party may be required to procure a bond
   guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim distribution and defense
   expenses.

C. NOTICE OF INCIDENT OR ACCIDENT

    Contracting party shall agree to disclose to Sandy City, all incidents or occurrences of accident,
    injury, and/or property damage covered by the insurance policy or policies.

D. OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS

    The policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

                                                 9
   1) General Liability and Automobile Liability Coverages
      a) Sandy City, their officers, officials, employees and volunteers are to be covered as an
         additional insured as respects: liability arising out of activities performed by or on behalf
         of the contracting party; products and completed operations of the contracting party;:
         premises owned, leased, hired or borrowed by the contracting party. The coverage shall
         contain no special limitations on the scope of protection afforded to Sandy City, its
         officers, officials, employees or volunteers.
      b) The contracting party’s insurance coverage shall be a primary insurance as respects to
         Sandy City, its officers, officials, employees and volunteers. Any insurance or self-
         insurance maintained by Sandy City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers shall
         be in excess of the contracting party’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
      c) Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policies shall not affect coverage
         provided to Sandy City, its officers, officials, employees or volunteers.
      d) The contracting party’s insurance shall apply separately to each insured against whom
         claim is made or suit is brought, except with respects to the limits of the insurer’s
         liability.
   2) Workers’ Compensation and Employers Liability Coverage

       The insurer shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against Sandy City, its officers,
       officials, employees and volunteers for losses arising from work performed by the
       contracting party for Sandy City.

       III. All Coverages

       Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that coverage shall
       not be suspended, voided, canceled by either party, reduced in coverage or in limits except
       after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, has
       been given to Sandy City.

E. ACCEPTABILITY OF INSURERS

   Insurance and bods are to be placed with insurers admitted in the State of Utah with a Best’s
   rating of no less than A-, IX, and in the limits as listed in this document, unless approved by the
   Director of Risk Management.

F. VERIFICATION OF COVERAGE

   Contracting party shall furnish Sandy City with certificates of insurance and with original
   endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause. The certificates and endorsements
   are to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The
   certificates and endorsements are to be furnished to and accepted by Sandy City before work
   commences. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required
   insurance policies, with all endorsements, at any time.

G. SUBCONTRACTORS




                                                10
   Contracting party shall include all subcontractors as an insured under its policies or shall furnish
   separate certificates and endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for
   subcontractors shall be subject to all of the requirements stated herein.

H. INDEMNIFICATION / LIABILITY

   Contracting party shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Customer, its officers, agents,
   employees and volunteers from all damages, costs or expenses in law or equity, including
   attorneys fee, that may at any time arise or be set up because of damages to property, bodily
   injury or personal injury received by reason of or in the course of providing the goods and
   services provided to the City which may be occasioned by any willful, negligent or wrongful act
   or omission of the contracting party, any of their employees or any subcontractors.




                                                11
