Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Russell Fox
CC:  Date: January 21, 2020
Re: Approving Ordinance 1418 Comments: This application is a request for approval of a text amendment. These text amendments have been initiated by the City and are being proposed in order to comply with state law related to the regulation of medical cannabis most recently amended by the Utah State Legislature in the 2019 First Special Session (SB 1002). The proposed text amendments will affect Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Chapters 9-3, 9-9, 9-11, 9-12, 9-13, 9-14, 9-18, and creates a new Chapter 9-42. These changes would apply citywide.
The Planning Commission reviewed these amendments at their December 19, 2019, meeting. The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation on a vote of 5-0 for the changes, with two modifications. The Planning Commission recommended adding language to limit the hours of operation for a medical cannabis pharmacy for 9:00 am to 9:00 pm (similar to other pharmacies in the city) as well as limit the number of cannabis production establishments and medical cannabis pharmacies based on the city population (1 per 40,000 for each use type). These additions were recommended by staff and supported by the Commission in their vote. The recommended changes have been included in Ordinance 1418.
The attached staff report includes a breakdown of all the changes proposed and discussed at the Planning Commission meeting. Also attached is the ordinance. The findings are as follows: For approval:
The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
The proposed text amendment complies with state law mandates regulating cannabis production establishments and medical cannabis pharmacies.
For denial:
The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
The proposed amendment will create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
The proposed text amendment does not comply with state law mandates regulating cannabis production establishments and medical cannabis pharmacies.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1418 1/15/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/15/2020 Cover Memo