                                      Development Review Committee
                                          1020 East Pioneer Road
                                            Draper, UT 84020
                                              September 30, 2020

To:                    Draper City Planning Commission
                       Business Date: October 8, 2020

From:                  Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Sequoias – Concept Plan Request
          Application No.:   SUBD-970-2020
          Applicant:         Dade Rose, representing Regal Homes
          Project Location:  Approximately 3235 East 15780 South
          Current Zoning:    RR-22 (Rural Residential, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone
          Acreage:           109.94 Acres (Approximately 47,888,986 ft2)
          Request:           Request for approval of a Concept Plan in the RR-22 zone regarding a
                             proposed development with in the Suncrest Development Agreement Area
                             consisting of 202 single-family homes and 78 townhomes.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Concept Plan for approximately 109.94 acres located at
approximately 3235 East 15780 South (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RR-22 and is located
within the Suncrest Development Agreement (DA) Area. The applicant is requesting that a Concept Plan
be approved to allow for future subdivision applications for a residential subdivision.

The DA was approved on August 24, 1999, with amendments approved in 2000 and 2003. The DA
covered 3,789.5 acres of property and allowed for 3,903 dwelling units with a mix of unit types and lot
sizes. The DA vests the property under the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in place on July 1,
1997. The City records do not include a copy of the DCMC from 1997, but do include a full copy of the
code from 1999 (1999 DCMC), when the final DA was approved by the City Council. Staff conducted an
exhaustive review of ordinances adopted between the July 1, 1997 approval and the 1999 code copy. Only
one alteration to the code was made that involved a code section that was part of the review for this
application. The Concept Plan complies with that code section. All reviews have been conducted under
the 1999 DCMC and the Suncrest Development Guidelines (Guidelines).

In general, the DA does not require an applicant to apply for a Concept Plan approval. Section 7i of the
DA states:

          7i. Concept Plans. The Project Master Plan attached hereto has satisfied the City’s requirements
          for a Concept Plan Review for the Property. Notwithstanding, there are certain items of
          information listed in the Master Development Guidelines, normally submitted with a Concept



Sequoias                                                                                 App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                     1
          Plan Review Application or Concept Plan Review Application in the Hillside Overlay District,
          which have not been submitted with the Project Master Plan for this Project. The items of
          information are detailed in nature and are either inappropriate or impractical to obtain at this
          stage of the Project’s review due to the side of the Project. However, these items are important
          for evaluating proposed developments for compliance with City Laws. Therefore, these items will
          be submitted with the Preliminary Plat application along with the standard Preliminary Plat
          submittals and are subject to review and approval by the City.

Section 17-2-010 of the 1999 DCMC has been superseded by the language of Section 7i of the DA as
shown above.

However, since the applicant applied for Concept Plan approval, staff reviewed the application according
to Chapter 17-2 of the 1999 DCMC. It’s important to note approval of a Concept Plan does not vest the
applicant with any rights. 1999 DCMC Section 17-2-060 states “Recommendations regarding the concept
plan by the City Council shall not constitute an approval or disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but
rather shall operate in such a manner as to give the subdivider general guidance as to the requirements
and constraints for subdivider’s proposed subdivision within the City.”

The Suncrest developers built approximately 1,369 dwelling units before filing for bankruptcy. Zions
Bank acquired the remaining property, including the project subject to this application, out of bankruptcy.
The City then purchased the remaining 2,315 acres of undeveloped property from Zions Bank in 2012.
The intent of that purchase was to preserve a majority of the property in its current natural state. However,
there were selected pieces of the property that were identified to be sold off for potential development.
The subject property was one of the pieces that was identified and sold. The rest of the land purchased
from Zions Bank has been placed in a conservation easement.

The property owner submitted a Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment in 2017, with
a Development Agreement and Text Amendment application submitted in 2018. The intent of those
applications was to create a new Master Planned Community (MPC) zone and remove the property from
the DA. The property owner has since opted to develop the property under the DA. The City received an
application for a Minor Subdivision in 2019. This Minor Subdivision will create a dead end access road
servicing the property from Suncrest Drive and create two lots, one on either side of the roadway. This
application is currently under review. In 2020 the applicant applied for a Concept Plan, which is the
subject of this report.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Hillside Low
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Sequoias                                                                                  App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                 2
The property has been assigned the RR-22 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
units per acre (Exhibit D). According to 1999 DCMC Section 9-4-020 the purpose of the RR-22 zone is
“To promote and preserve, in appropriate areas, conditions favorable to large-lot family life, the keeping
of limited numbers of animals and fowl. These districts are intended to be primarily residential in
character and protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.” The property abuts the
RR-22 zone to the north and west. The property abuts Highland City to the west and south. The Highland
City property is zoned R1-40 (Residential Zone, 20,000 square foot lot minimum). To the east is Alpine
City and the CR-40,000 (Country Residential, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) zone.

Subdivision Layout. The applicant has submitted a Concept Plan with 280 dwelling units (Exhibit E). This
plan includes 78 townhomes and 202 single-family lots. The subdivision will be accessed from a public
roadway running from Suncrest Dr. to the east property boundary which is also Alpine City’s municipal
border. This roadway is referred to as the Access Roadway within this report. The townhomes are situated
on the west end of the property, with the single-family units occupying the majority of the site on the
north and south of the Access Roadway.

The applicant is proposing the SFD-7 designation for the single-family lots. In the Guidelines, the SFD-7
designation allows for single-family lots with a minimum lot area of 7,000 square feet. The Concept Plan
shows an average lot size of 8,400 square feet, with the smallest lot at 7,808 square feet and the largest lot
at 30,289 square feet. There is no standard requiring a minimum size for townhomes. The footprint for the
townhomes is 1,800 square feet.

Circulation. The Access Roadway is a 56-foot wide public road that continues unimpeded through the
subdivision to the Alpine City border allowing for a future public road connection through Alpine City.
There is not currently a roadway built on the Alpine City side of the municipal border nor is there an
approved subdivision on the Alpine City side allowing said future public road connection. Due to these
facts, the Access Roadway that terminates in Draper City is considered a dead end public street because it
does not connect to another public street. A dead end street requires a temporary 100-foot diameter public



Sequoias                                                                                   App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                  3
cul-de-sac turnaround until a public street connection in Alpine City can be made.

The internal right-of-way range in size from 56-feet wide to 26-feet wide. The main public right-of-ways
going through each single-family residential area are 56-feet wide, with cul-de-sacs being 46-feet wide.
Each of these public right-of-ways will have curb, gutter, park strip, and sidewalk. These roadways are
shown as being public roads on the Concept Plan. Private lanes serving single-family lots are 26-feet wide
and include only curb and gutter. The townhomes contain 30-foot wide private roads consisting of only
curb and gutter. Exhibit E provides cross sections for each roadway design. The 56-foot right-of-way
cross section shown in the Concept Plan is not included in the DA and Guidelines. The proposed 56-foot
street design will improve access, maintenance, function and safety to the higher used roads where it is
shown in the Concept Plan. The Concept Plan also uses the 46-foot street right-of-way from the DA and
Guidelines and is the same standard as used in the last phases of Suncrest to be approved, such as Mercer
Hollow Phase 15. The narrower 46-foot street section is used on dead end streets with cul-de-sacs. The
modification is acceptable to both the City and the applicant and the deviation is allowable per the DA
Section 7a which allows modifications to protect the public health and safety.

Open Space. The property includes 33.64 acres of open space, or 31% of the overall property. There is no
minimum amount of internal open space required within the DA or Guidelines. The majority of this
property is planned as native open space. Two manicured pocket parks will be provided within the single-
family residential areas equaling a total of 31,527 square feet of manicured parkland. The townhomes will
include 204,806 square feet of common open space around the townhomes. This area will also be
manicured landscaped area. The internal open space within the project complies with the DA and
Guidelines.

The Hog Hollow Drainage channel runs through the property. This channel is a major trails corridor in
Draper City. The DA and Suncrest Master Plan calls for a Primary Trail Head at this location. The
Concept Plan includes a public trial head to the Hog Hollow Drainage channel trails. This trail head
includes a playground, picnic tables, restrooms, and 30 parking spaces.

Dwelling Units. The applicant is proposing 280 total dwelling units. Per the International Fire Code
Section D107.1, up to 30 dwelling units are allowed on a dead end roadway. At this time, the applicant
has submitted a Concept Plan showing one access point: the public Access Roadway from Suncrest Dr.
The Concept Plan does show a stub connection into Alpine City; however, there is not an approved public
roadway within Alpine City for the public Access Roadway connection. The applicant has an approved
and recorded plat in Alpine City called Summit Pointe (Exhibit F). This plat shows a 40-foot wide private
driveway, cross access, and utility easement serving four lots. The private driveway does not abut the
Draper City municipal border and does not provide a connection point to the proposed public Access
Roadway within the Sequoias Concept Plan.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Concept Plan request is found
in 1999 DCMC Sections 17-1-050, 17-2-050, and 17-2-060. These sections outline the standard of review
for such requests as:

1999 DCMC Section 17-1-050 General Considerations
   (a) The General Plan shall guide the use and future development of all land within the corporate
   boundaries of the City. The size and design of lots, the nature of utilities, the design and improvement
   of streets, the type and intensity of land use, and the provisions for any facilities in any subdivision
   shall conform to the land uses shown and the standards established in the General Plan, the Zoning
   Ordinance, and other applicable ordinances.




Sequoias                                                                                 App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                 4
     (b) Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses, and topography shall be preserved where
     possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as to prevent excessive grading and scarring of the
     landscape. The design of new subdivisions shall consider, and relate to, existing street widths,
     alignments and names.

     (c) Community facilities, such as parks, recreation areas, and transportation facilities shall be
     provided in the subdivision in accordance with General Plan standards, this Title, and other
     applicable ordinances. This Title establishes procedures for the referral of information on proposed
     subdivisions to interested boards, bureaus, and other governmental agencies and utility companies,
     both private and public, so that the extension of community facilities and utilities may be
     accomplished in an orderly manner, coordinated with the development .of this subdivision. In order
     to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to implement this policy, the subdivider may be
     required to dedicate, grant easements over or otherwise reserve land for schools, parks, playgrounds,
     public ways, utility easements, and other public purposes.

1999 DCMC Section 17-2-050 Review by the Planning Commission
   (a) The Planning Commission shall review the submitted concept plan and check compliance with the
   City's Master Plan, Zoning Ordinance, this Subdivision Ordinance, and other appropriate
   regulations. Courtesy notice of the public meeting at which the Planning Commission reviews the
   proposed subdivision concept plan shall be provided in accordance with Section 17-1-085. The
   Planning Commission may make recommendations to the City Council, and shall make findings
   regarding the submitted concept plan, specifying any inadequacy in the information submitted, non-
   compliance with City regulations, questionable or undesirable design and/or engineering, and the
   need for any additional information which may assist the Planning Commission to evaluate the
   proposed subdivision and in making a recommendation to the City Council.

     (b) The Planning Commission may require additional information, data or studies to be provided to
     the Planning Commission by the subdivider for the overall development before any recommendation
     is given by the Planning Commission to the City Council, and the Planning Commission may include
     requirements for the overall development as part of its findings' on the concept plan.

1999 DCMC Section 17-2-060 Review by the City Council
   (a) After receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission together with any information
   related thereto, the City Council shall consider the concept plan for the proposed subdivision and
   may make recommendations regarding the submitted concept plan.

     (b) If the City Council rejects concept plan, no further review of the proposed subdivision shall be
     made by the City Council, and a new concept plan submittal shall be required to re-initiate the
     subdivision process.

     (c) Recommendations regarding the concept plan by the City Council shall not constitute an approval
     or disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but rather shall operate in such as to give the subdivider
     general guidance as requirements and constraints for subdivider's subdivision within the City.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Concept
Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works



Sequoias                                                                                  App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                  5
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Concept Plan submission. Comments from these divisions,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Parks and Recreation Division Review. The Draper City Parks and Recreation Division has completed
their review of the Concept Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Concept Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request and make a decision based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends it include the following
conditions of approval as part of its recommendation to the City Council:

          1.           Recommendations regarding the Concept Plan by the City Council shall not constitute an
                       approval or disapproval of the proposed subdivision, but rather shall operate in such a
                       manner as to give the subdivider general guidance as requirements and constraints for
                       subdivider's subdivision within the City.
          2.           Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat applications are required per the Suncrest
                       Development Agreement and 1999 DCMC Sections 17-3-020 and 17-4-020.
          3.           The review comments shown in Exhibit A are not a technical review. A technical review
                       will be provided with the Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat applications. These
                       applications shall address all outstanding conceptual review comments listed in Exhibit A
                       of this report.
          4.           Additional studies or data may be required at Preliminary Subdivision application per
                       1999 DCMC Sections 17-3-030(C)(9), 17-3-030(F), 16-2-170, and 17-2-050(b) and
                       Section 9d of the Suncrest Development Agreement. These reports may include, but not
                       be limited to, drainage reports and storm water maintenance plans.
          5.           A Fire Protection Plan is required. The proposed Concept Plan is located in an area that is
                       identified as being an area that has an extreme risk to wildfire this is according to the
                       Utah Wildfire Risk Assessment Portal (UWRAP). And to determine what should be done
                       to mitigate the fire danger in this area the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code
                       allows the Draper City Fire Code Official to require a Fire Protection Plan to be
                       submitted. The requirement for the fire protection plan will need to show what preventive
                       measures can be more effective for the individual homeowner and limit the risk of home
                       to home fire spread. As well as home to mountain fire spread, this plan will need to
                       address landscaping, defensible space, building construction, fire emergency ingress and
                       egress, and water supply. At a minimum this plan will need to consist of the following
                       per the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code:
                          i. 405.2 General. When required by the code official, a fire protection plan shall be
                              prepared and approved prior to the first building permit issuance or subdivision
                              approval.
                         ii. 405.3 Content. The plan shall be based upon a site-specific wildfire risk assessment
                              that includes considerations of location, topography, aspect, flammable vegetation,



Sequoias                                                                                        App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                       6
                              climatic conditions and fire history. The plan shall address water supply, access,
                              building ignition and fire-resistance factors, fire protection systems and equipment,
                              defensible space and vegetation management.
                         iii. 405.4 Cost. The cost of fire protection plan preparation and review shall be the
                              responsibility of the applicant.
                         iv. 405.5 Plan retention. The fire protection plan shall be retained by the code official.
          6.           The 56-foot street section in the conceptual plan is not included in the Suncrest
                       Development Agreement and Guidelines and is a special exception. The proposed 56-foot
                       street design will improve access, maintenance, function and safety to the higher used
                       roads where it is shown in the Concept Plan. The modification is acceptable to both the
                       City and the applicant and allowed under DA Section 7a.
          7.           As allowed in the DA Section 7a, due to health and safety requirements, final
                       geotechnical and geo-hazards reports approved by the City are required per DCMC 17-3-
                       030(E) and 17-3-030(L) of the current DCMC. Engineering cannot provide a positive
                       recommendation for Preliminary Plat approval until the city accepts the geotechnical and
                       geohazards reports, through its peer review process, and all the recommendations are
                       incorporated into the site design and construction drawings.
          8.           The conceptual plan provides a public street layout to the Draper City boundary. The
                       extension of this public street is required to connect to a public street in Alpine City.
                       Until the connection is made, a temporary 100-foot diameter public cul-de-sac turnaround
                       is required to terminate the dead end public street. This turnaround shall be shown with
                       the Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat applications, or the connection to an existing
                       public street is provided.
          9.           Accesses that do not comply with the city’s access spacing requirements are required to be
                       evaluated in a traffic impact study. See city’s master transportation plan for details
                       regarding analysis requirements and standards to reduce spacing.
          10.          An unimpeded and ungated public roadway of at least 56-feet in width shall be provided
                       from Suncrest Drive to the municipal border between Draper City and Alpine City.
          11.          Per the International Fire Code Section D107.1 only 30 dwelling units are allowed until a
                       secondary access is constructed. An exception can be approved by the Fire Marshal per
                       the International Fire Code Section D107.1.2 allowing up to 50 dwelling units if the
                       dwelling units are equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in
                       accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2, or 9.3.3.1.3.

The findings for approval are as follows:

          There are no findings for approval at this time.

The findings for denial are as follows:

          1.           The DA approved Concept Plan for the Suncrest Development shows two public access
                       points to the proposed development area. The proposed Concept Plan only contains one
                       public access point to the proposed development. Only 30 dwelling units are allowed on a
                       single access point, regardless of the road being public or private, per International Fire
                       Code Section D107.1 and the proposed Concept Plan shows 280 dwelling units. The
                       Concept Plan cannot be approved with more units than allowed by the International Fire
                       Code.




Sequoias                                                                                        App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                        7
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a recommendation for approval of the Concept
Plan to the City Council, as requested by Dade Rose, representing Regal Homes for the Sequoias Concept
Plan, application SUBD-790-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated September 30, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a recommendation for approval of the
Concept Plan to the City Council, as requested by Dade Rose, representing Regal Homes for the Sequoias
Concept Plan, application SUBD-790-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
the Staff Report dated September 30, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a recommendation for denial of the Concept Plan to
the City Council, as requested by Dade Rose, representing Regal Homes for the Sequoias Concept Plan,
application SUBD-790-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2020.




Sequoias                                                                              App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                 8
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.


                                                                                                   Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                       Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield

 Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                   DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                       DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou,
                       email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                             Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                   Date: 2020.10.01 13:39:38-06'00'
__________________________________
                       Date: 2020.10.01 13:43:50 -06'00'                     __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                                          Draper City Planning Division

                                Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                DN: C=US,

                                                                             Mike  Barker
                                                                                                   Digitally signed by Mike Barker

Don Buckley                     E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O="Draper
                                City Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
__________________________________
                                Buckley
                                                                                                   DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City Attorney,
                                                                                                   email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                             __________________________________
                                                                                                   Date: 2020.10.02 15:53:41 -06'00'
                                Date: 2020.10.02 08:51:11-06'00'
Draper City Fire Department                                                  Draper City Legal Counsel

                                  Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes

  Matthew T. Symes DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
                   O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
__________________________________
                     Date: 2020.10.01 13:51:23-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




Sequoias                                                                                                                App. # SUBD-970-2020
Concept Plan Request                                                     8
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. All single-family lots shall have a minimum lot frontage is 50-feet per 9-4-070. Lot 249 does not
      meet this standard.
   2. What open space amenities are being proposed? Suncrest Design Guidelines states: "Master
      Developer shall bond for and guarantee the installation of infrastructure and appropriate open
      space amenities within a phase with each final plat map in accordance with the City Laws."

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. Subdivision reviewed per the DCMC 1999 code and Suncrest Development Agreement. Comment
      for information only – no additional response required.
   2. The purpose of a Conceptual Subdivision application is to identify the regulations and design
      requirements applicable to the subdivision per DCMC 17-2-010. Comment for information only –
      no additional response required.
   3. Additional studies or data may be required at preliminary subdivision application per DCMC 17-
      2-050(b). Comment for information only – no additional response required.
   4. Street sections in the conceptual plan are a special exception to the development agreement
      standard sections to improve access, maintenance, function, and safety of the proposed public
      streets. Comment for information only – no additional response required.
   5. Utilities design and capacity are not reviewed with the conceptual plan. System design, capacity,
      operation, and maintenance operations are evaluated with a preliminary plan. Comment for
      information only – no additional response required.
   6. As allowed in the DA Section 7a, due to health and safety requirements, the developer is to provide
      a drainage report including detention, orifice, and pipe sizing calculations per 17-3-030(C)(9) &
      17-3-030(F) of the current DCMC. The drainage report is to meet the requirement of the City of
      Draper Drainage Design Criteria available online. Implementing LID (low-impact development)
      BMP’s in the overall drainage design is required. Report is to be stamped and signed by a P.E.
      registered in the Utah. Comment for information only – submittal required at preliminary
      application.
   7. As allowed in the DA Section 7a, due to health and safety requirements, a final geotechnical report
      approved by the City is required per DCMC 17-3-030(E) and 17-3-030(L) of the current DCMC.
      Engineering cannot provide a positive recommendation for Preliminary approval until the city
      accepts the geotechnical and geohazards reports, through its peer review process, and all the
      recommendations are incorporated into the site design and construction drawings. Comment for
      information only – submittal required at preliminary application.
   8. Due to updated federal, state, and county requirements, Stormwater Maintenance Plan and
      Agreement are now required for every private storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170 of the
      current DCMC. Submission of the maintenance plan is now required prior to site approval or
      Preliminary subdivision approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of approval; it is
      required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit
      for construction of the site. Comment for information only – submittal required at preliminary
      application.
   9. The conceptual plan provides a public street layout to the Draper City boundary. The extension of
       this public street is required to connect to a public street in Alpine City. Until the connection is
       made, a temporary 100-foot diameter public cul-de-sac turnaround is required to terminate the dead
       end public street.
   10. Table 4.1.1C outlines required K values for vertical and horizontal curves, per the Suncrest
       Agreement Exhibits. It appears all the streets are intended to be lower speed limit roads (where the
       Suncrest DA defines that as streets with less than 400 average daily trips or approximately 50 single
       family residences).
       a. It appears the private streets shown do not meet K values.
       b. It appears that there may be some horizontal curves that exceed the design standards for
            sharpness.
   11. Accesses that do not comply with the city’s access spacing requirements are required to be
       evaluated in a traffic impact study. See city’s master transportation plan for details regarding
       analysis requirements and standards to reduce spacing.
   12. Sight distance triangles will need to be evaluated at preliminary submittal where a public street
       connects to another public street on a horizontal curve.
   13. Maintenance vehicle access is required to all SD facilities, including structures, basins, etc.
   14. Access road to site is under review with a separate minor subdivision application. Comments on
       the access road are included with that review.

Parks and Recreation Division Review.

   1. Provide vehicle restriction gates on all maintenance/emergency access roads to prevent unauthorized use.
   2. Provide temporary fencing, prior to home construction, between public open space and private lots to
      prevent encroachment onto public open space.
   3. Provide final plans of Hog Hollow Primary Trailhead/Pocket Park for city review.
   4. Recommend that picnic shelter be placed by the play area.
   5. Provide maintenance/emergency vehicular access to the existing Hog Hollow and Spring Hollow access
      roads.
   6. The trailhead needs to be at Hog Hollow, since it is the main junction for trails in the area. Locating it
      elsewhere could create a problem with on-street parking near Hog Hollow. The redlines include a rough
      sketch of a potential location for the trailhead which could work well. It may require some adjustment
      of the debris basin, but is in a flatter area that would better accommodate the parking lot and other park
      amenities. This rough sketch is an alternative location for the proposed trail head not a required
      modification.
   7. On the second page of the rough sketch is the existing trails in the area. As you will note, there shouldn’t
      be any trail access from the future road, except at Hog Hollow and at the existing Mercer Hollow
      sewerline road and trail just north of Suncrest Drive. Accommodations for parking near Mercer Hollow
      should be considered.

Fire Division Review.

   1. Fire Protection Plan is Required. The proposed Concept Plan is located in an area that is
      identified as being an area that has an extreme risk to wildfire according to the Utah Wildfire
      Risk Assessment Portal (UWRAP). And to determine what should be done to mitigate the fire
      danger in this area the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code allows the Draper City Fire
      Code Official to require a Fire Protection Plan to be submitted. This plan will need to consist of
      the following per the 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code:

       A. 405.2 General. When required by the code official, a fire protection plan shall be prepared
          and approved prior to the first building permit issuance or subdivision approval.
   B. 405.3 Content. The plan shall be based upon a site-specific wildfire risk assessment that
      includes considerations of location, topography, aspect, flammable vegetation, climatic
      conditions and fire history. The plan shall address water supply, access, building ignition and
      fire-resistance factors, fire protection systems and equipment, defensible space and vegetation
      management.
   C. 405.4 Cost. The cost of fire protection plan preparation and review shall be the responsibility
      of the applicant.
   D. 405.5 Plan retention. The fire protection plan shall be retained by the code official.

    The reason for this plan is to see what can be done to allow for more effective wildfire protection
    that focuses on the property protection and maintenance. Because the proposed concept shows a
    large density of new homes that are to be located in an area, the State of Utah has identified it as
    an extreme wildfire area. The requirement for the fire protection plan will need to show what
    preventive measures can be more effective for the individual homeowner and limit the risk of
    home to home fire spread. As well as home to mountain fire spread. This plan will need to
    address landscaping, defensible space, building construction,
    fire emergency ingress and egress, and water supply.

2. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26) feet
   exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
   required. (The Concept Plan shows a width of fifty-four (54) feet and that is acceptable to the fire
   department). The road must be, designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of
   emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The
   road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum
   grade of 10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits being issued. Fire access will
   need to be maintained throughout the construction process.

      D103.6.1 Roads 20 to 26 feet in width. Fire apparatus access roads 20 to 26 feet wide (6096 to
      7925 mm) shall be posted on both sides as a fire lane.

      D103.6.2 Roads more than 26 feet in width. Fire apparatus access roads more than 26 feet wide
      (7925 mm) to 32 feet wide (9754 mm) shall be posted on one side of the road as a fire lane.

      All roads shall be designed for emergency responders, ingress, egress and evacuation. All roads
      shall be designed and constructed to allow evacuation simultaneously with emergency response
      operations.

3. Two separate and approved points of access are required. The fire code requires that One- or two-
   family dwelling residential developments where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall be
   provided with two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads. The submitted Concept
   Plan shows a public road that allows for two separate access points. No gates are allowed across a
   public road if there is a gate the road would then be considered a dead end road and a fire
   department turn around would be required. In this instance the road would not be considered
   having two points of access. Any dead-end public or private fire service access road more than
   150 feet in length shall be provided with a turn-a-round at the terminus and have a minimum
   radius of 90 feet to the centerline of the road, or alternatively shall have a “hammerhead T” turn-
   a-round to provide emergency vehicles with a three-point turn ability.

    D107.1 One- or two-family dwelling residential developments. Developments of one- or two-
    family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall be provided with two
    separate and approved fire apparatus access roads.
    Exceptions:

        Where there are more than 30 dwelling units on a single public or private fire apparatus
        access road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an approved automatic
        sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3, access from
        two directions shall not be required.

        The number of dwelling units on a single fire apparatus access road shall not be increased
        unless fire apparatus access roads will connect with future development, as determined by the
        fire code official.

4. Road Markings the 2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface requires the following:

    A. 403.4 Marking of roads. Approved signs or other approved notices shall be provided and
       maintained for access roads and driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the obstruction
       thereof or both. All road identification signs and supports shall be of noncombustible
       materials. Signs shall have minimum 4-inch-high (102 mm) reflective letters with 1/2 inch
       (12.7 mm) stroke on a contrasting 6-inch-high (152 mm) sign. Road identification signage
       shall be mounted at a height of 7 feet (2134 mm) from the road surface to the bottom of the
       sign.

    B. 403.5 Marking of fire protection equipment. Fire protection equipment and fire hydrants shall
       be clearly identified in a manner approved by the code official to prevent obstruction.

    C. 403.6 Address markers. All buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which shall be
       placed at each driveway entrance and be visible from both directions of travel along the road.
       In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of construction and shall be
       maintained thereafter, and the ad-dress shall be visible and legible from the road on which the
       address is located. Address signs along one-way roads shall be visible from both the intended
       direction of travel and the opposite direction. Where multiple addresses are required at a
       single driveway, they shall be mounted on a single post, and additional signs shall be posted
       at locations where driveways divide. Where a roadway provides access solely to a single
       commercial or industrial business, the address sign shall be placed at the nearest road
       intersection providing access to that site.

5. Adequate Water Supply is required. Adequate water supply shall be determined for the purposes
   of initial fire attack and flame front controls as follows:

    A. One and two family dwellings. The required water supply for one and two family dwellings
       having a fire flow calculation area that does not exceed 3,600 square feet shall be a minimum
       of 1,000 gallons per minute for a minimum duration of 2 hours. Any one or two family homes
       having a fire flow calculation area that exceeds 3,600 square feet will need to provide a fire
       flow test to show there is enough fire flow to support the size of home.

        Exception: A reduction in required fire flow up to 50 percent will be allowed if the home is
        provided with an approved residential fire sprinkler system.

6. Fire Hydrants Are Required there shall be a fire hydrants spaced every 1000ft up to where there
   are homes and then the spacing will be required at every 450ft. All hydrants shall have Flag
   Markings clearly identifying the location of the hydrant for in climate weather. This will be
    approved by the Fire Code Official once the final subdivision plat is submitted.

7. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
   Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the
   issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
   temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

8. No combustible construction shall be, allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
   purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
   delivered on building site.

9. Fire Department Approved Turn Around Required. Access roads over 150 feet long shall require
   an approved turn around. Below is a diagram of approved fire department turn arounds. This
   project WILL meet this requirement. Dead-End roads in excess of 300ft will be required to have
   fire department turn outs every 150ft or where the terrain allows.




10. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
    plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
    their background.

11. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being, issued. All
    lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT E
CONCEPT PLAN
               BENCHMARK
NORTH QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENSIGN
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

ELEV = 5244.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                200                          0             100                                  200                       400                                      NOTE: NO OTHER KNOWN SIGNIFICANT MANMADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sandy, UT 84070
                  R    @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                       PRIOR TO THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEATURES OR STRUCTURES EXIST ONSITE THAN WHAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                 ( IN FEET )
Know what's below.
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
                                                                                                                                                              HORZ: 1 inch = 200 ft.                                                                                               IS SHOWN ON THIS VICINITY PLAN
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CEDAR CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5630
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Phone: 435.865.1453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5640
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5640                                                                                                     Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5630
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5620
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         55 90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       55700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   555                                                                                                                     REGAL HOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5540                                                                                                                     9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5530                                                                                                                       COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N 89°43'24" E      WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOUTH  1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NORTH 1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1076.44'                    5510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RICHARD COOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PHONE:    801-232-1898
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5490
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5470
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5460
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5440

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .7   9'                                                                                                                                                                     543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             88                                                                                                                                                                          542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      541
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NORTH 1188.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST  1188.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1188.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                                                                     00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OW
                                                                                                       DRAPER CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       °4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  51

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST TRAIL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST TRAIL                                                                                                                                                                                              HARTVIGSEN, RICHARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST TRAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S 89°48'24" E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WEST   981.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH 981.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 981.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 981.91'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             538
          54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAPER, UTAH
            10                                                                                                              HIGHLAND CITY WATER TANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W



                         0
                      540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL #11-008-0012                                                                         5370
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                             5390




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                         523.00'
                                    538




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   109.97 ACRES                                                                       5360
                                          5370




                                                                                                                                                                                                            x
                                                 5360




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST TRAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50
                                                        5350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST HIGH PRESSURE GAS LINE
                                                               5340




                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                              WEST
                                                                                                                                                                              EAST
                                                                                                                                                                              N 0°00'00"
                                                                                                                                                                                       523.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                       523.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                         523.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                         E 523.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UNDER TRAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                         NORTH
                                                                         5330
                                                                      5320




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         533
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                5310




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                       5300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  531
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                              5290




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°48'21" W                                        1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH 1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEST  1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1399.36'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S 0°20'20" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORTH 2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EAST  2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2582.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 528
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXIST TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            527
                                                                                                     HIGHLAND CITY SECONDARY WATER RESERVOIR
                                                                                                              528




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          526
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HIGHLAND CITY                                                                                                                                                              52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                     5270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                                                             5260




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOMINION GAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EASEMENT                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1311.84'
                                                                                                                                      5250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                             5240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N 0°15'21" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORTH 1311.84'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1311.84'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1311.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIX BLUE BISON, LLC
                                                                                                                                                    5230




                                                                                  ALPINE JOINT VENTURE LTD.                                                                                                                                                                           DON                              ST                                                                                                                  51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W L O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NE
                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                           522




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5170
                                                                                                                                                                  5210
                                                                                                                                                                           5200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     516 50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEACON HILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE HIGHLANDS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                     5190




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5140
                                                                                                                                                                                                            80
                                                                                                                                                                                                            51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N 89°47'56" W                                         1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST  1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1583.21'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5170                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5170


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HIGHLAND CITY WATER TANK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VICINITY PLAN -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OA   D                                     EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O W R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OL   L                                   5150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIMBER RIDGE LN                                                                                                                                                                                                          O G H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SWISS ONE SUBDIVISION                                         8684                   3/5/20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LS G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BEACON HILL                                                                                                                                                                                                  PHASE 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE HIGHLANDS SUBDIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           J. GERA                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R. ELDER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EX-001
                                                     NOTES:
                BENCHMARK
                                                      -   TOTAL SITE AREA = 109.97 ACRES                                            -                                                                  AN ENTRYWAY MONUMENT THAT COMPLIES WITH THE SUNCREST DESIGN                                                                                                              SITE SUMMARY TABLE
    NORTH QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
    TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,                   -   PARCEL NUMBER: 11-008-0012                                                                                                                   GUIDELINES WILL BE PROVIDED. THE EXACT FEATURES OF THE ENTRYWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DESCRIPTION                AREA (AC)             PERCENTAGE
                                                      -   NO MAPPED FEMA FLOODPLAINS ARE PRESENT ON THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.                                                                              MONUMENT HAVE YET TO BE DETERMINED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENSIGN
    SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPEN SPACE
    ELEV = 5244.33'                                   -   UTILITIES THAT WILL SERVICE THE PROPOSED SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION WILL BE     -                                                                  FENCING THAT COMPLIES WITH THE SUNCREST DESIGN GUIDELINES WILL BE                                                                                         (EXCLUDING                       33.64                  31%
                                                          INSTALLED WITH THE BACKBONE INFRASTRUCTURE PHASE (DRAPER SUBD-683-2019)                                                                      PROVIDED.                                                                                                                                                 COMMON AREA)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING
                                                      -   PARK STRIP LANDSCAPING, INCLUDING ANY PUBLIC ACCESS STREETS, SHALL BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL SITE                      109.97                  100%
                                                          PRIVATELY MAINTAINED AND NOT BY DRAPER CITY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY
                                                      -   ALL LOTS MEET THE MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SFD-7 AS SPECIFIED IN THE SUNCREST                                                                                                                     SLOPES TABLE
                                                          DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UNIT TYPE                            DWELLING UNITS                                                                    150               0         75           150                   300                                          45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                           CALL BLUESTAKES                                                                                                                                                                                            NUMBER       MINIMUM SLOPE   MAXIMUM SLOPE     COLOR
                           @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS    -   ALL OPEN SPACE PARCELS (EXCEPT FOR PARCEL E & L) SHALL REMAIN NATIVE WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SINGLE-FAMILY                                  202
                      R




                           PRIOR TO THE                   LAND DISTURBANCE (TO FACILITATE DRAINAGE AND TRAIL CONNECTIONS) KEPT TO A                                                                                                     1             30.00%          13375.79%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ( IN FEET )
                           COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
    Know what's below.                                    MINIMUM.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MULTI-FAMILY                                   78                                                                                        HORZ: 1 inch = 150 ft.
       Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAYTON
                                                      -   ALL COMMON SPACE AREAS, IN ADDITION TO PARCEL E & L, WILL BE MANICURED.
                                                      -   MINIMUM LOT SIZE: 7,808 S.F.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL                                    280 (2.55 DU/AC)                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                      -   AVERAGE LOT SIZE: 8,400 S.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                           5400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5575
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.896.2983

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    537




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FOR:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REGAL HOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                         5375                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE O W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RICHARD COOK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NA LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHONE:    801-232-1898




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AI HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5325
                                                                                                                                                                                                5350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DR NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5475
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VILLAGE 2: 93 LOTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SP
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5325




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                               HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5425
                                                                                                                                                                   GH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                    OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                             527




                                                                                                                                                                      LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5400
                                                                                                                                                                        WD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                           x                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 52
                                                                                                                                                                           RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                           x




                                                                                                                           W   W

                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                x




                                                                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5375
                                                                                                                                                                               INA
                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                           W
                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                               x
                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                    GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                       W

                                                                                                                           W   W
                                                                                            x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          535




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                       x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          530
                                                                                            x




                                                                                                                                                   x




                                                                                                                                                                                      VILLAGE 1: 78 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                      522                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5325
                                                                                                    x
                                                                                                                                   x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXI
                                                                                                                   x




            SEQUOIA RIDGE WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53
                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                                                                                            HIGHLAND CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5275




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IS                                                                                                                                                 5275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LI                                                                                                                       VILLAGE 3: 109 LOTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5175




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5225
                                                                                                    HIGHL
                                                                                                     DRAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAI
                                                                                                          AND C
                                                                                                           ER CIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST
                                                                                                                ITY
                                                                                                                  Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REET
                                                                                                                                                                                                ON ST
                                                                                                                                                                                      NEW   LOND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5175




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCEPTUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT LAYOUT -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HIGHLAND CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OVERALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LS GA
                                                                                                                                                                        PONC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8684                   9/21/20
                                                                                                                                                                         E DE L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER CITY                                                                  DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J. GERA                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                            EON D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HIGHLAND CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALPINE CITY                                                                 PROJECT MANAGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ALPINE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                               RIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EX-100
w
                                    BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                                            TYPICAL TOWNHOME DIMENSIONS
NORTH QUARTER OF SECTION 23,                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.00'
TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENSIGN
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12.00'
ELEV = 5244.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60                               0               30                         60                                                120                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sandy, UT 84070




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50.00'
                       PRIOR TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ( IN FEET )
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
Know what's below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HORZ: 1 inch = 60 ft.
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOOELE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 248




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14,129 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                           Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.324 acres                                                                                                                                 10,112 sq.ft.                                               CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.232 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               45.50'                                                                                                                Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                         153                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                     .29                                                                   .31'                                                                                                                                                                               .22                              RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .79               78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               88                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phone: 435.896.2983




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11                                                                             LOT 247




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                                                                      13,185 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH 1188.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST  1188.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1188.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.303 acres                                                                                                                                                              49'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8'3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5325
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            °4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30.51'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     51                                                                                                                                   212




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  115.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     53                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25 LOT 246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31.4                    33.4                                                                            REGAL HOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15,582 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                        4'                                                                          9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.358 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           54.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONTACT:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 234                                                           29.24                   RICHARD COOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5325                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           159.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10,425 sq.ft.                                                                             PHONE:    801-232-1898
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8'                                                                                                                                            0.239 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 47.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                80.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 235
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,411 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 124.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-29                                                                                                                                                              LOT 245                                                                                                                                                   125.45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                         0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0'                                                                                                                                                                      13,200 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               67.24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70.18'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                           0.303 acres                                                                                                                                    LOT 233
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T-28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8,787 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-33                              20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                              0.202 acres
                                                                                                                                                             HO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T-27                                                                                                                                                                                                              128.06'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5300
                                                                                                                                                               GH


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T-34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28.87'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       123.04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T-26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                 OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-35                                                                                                                                       LOT 244
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,208 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                   LO



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T-25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      56.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.211 acres                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                                                                                                    WD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  129.26'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RE                                        .3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12,579 sq.ft.                                                          0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100.20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T-24                                          T                                           18                30                                                                                                                                                                 120.01'                                                                                                              0.289 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ES
                                                                                                                                                                                      RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         527                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IVA                                                          T-36
                                                                                                                                                                                          INA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PR                                                                                                                                           T-56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 243




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    75.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                            GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T-22                                                                                         T-37                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,168 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                          71.75'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      75.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TRAIL FOOTBRIDGE OVER INCISED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.210 acres                                                                                                                           57.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-57                                                                                                                                                                                                         32.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SPRING HOLLOW CHANNEL.                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              126.99'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                            S 89°48'24" E                                 981.91'                                                                                                                                                                                           10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH 981.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        981.91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         981.91'




                                                                                 x                             x                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 242




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                         146.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.69




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30
                                                                                 DEBRIS FLOW EXTENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10,245 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 61,360 sq.ft.                                                                        0.235 acres
                                                                                                                                x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          98'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            22.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.409 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 210
                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-18
                                                                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4'
                                                                             W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T-54
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T-40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        146.59'
                                                    x




                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13,288 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.305 acres
                                                                     W




                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T-47                                                                                                                             T-59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20.0'
                                                                         HIGHLAND CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T-41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27,647 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75.37'
                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 241




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PRIVATE STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T
                                                                                                          W




                                                                          WATER TANK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.635 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GA
                                                                                                                                               x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,205 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S
                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        75.00'
                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T-48                                            T-53                                                                             T-60                                                                                               0.257 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   132.66'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NE




                                                                             W
                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PRIVATE STREET)
                                                                                 W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 209
                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33.95
                                                  x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   147.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,452 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40.95'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-46                                                           T-49                                            T-52                                                                              T-61                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.194 acres
                                                                                                                          x




                                                                                                                                               T-1                                                                                                                                                                                 PARCEL A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T-43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PUBLIC)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36.44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19,280 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   304,957 sq.ft.                    PRIMARY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 71.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-45                                                           T-50                                            T-51                                                                             T-62                                                                                                   11,477 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                    111.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.443 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44.58'
                                                                                                                                      T-2                                                                                                                                                                                           7.001 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.263 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TRAILHEAD                                                           T-44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         48.45'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 208




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20.0'
                                                x




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VILLAGE 1: 78 UNITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            530
                                                                                                              x




                                                                                                                          T-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               101.72'                                               '                                                                                      8,766 sq.ft.                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .30
                                                                                                                                                     T)
        523.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       522                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30                                                                                            0.201 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        86.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20.3'
                                                                                                                                                 EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23.
                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       09'
                                                                                                                                             ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        56.0'
                                                                                                                    T-4                                                  T-17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             88.06
                                                                                                   15.0'
                                                                                                                                        TE




             N
             SOUTH
             EAST
             WEST       523.00'
                      523.00'
                        E 523.00'
               0°00'00"
                      523.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PUBLIC STREET)                                                                                                                         95°'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                        VA
        NORTH




                                                        x
                                                                                           x




                                                                                                                                                                                     T-16
                                                                                                                                      RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                65.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9'
                                                                                                                                    (P




                                                                                                              T-5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15.0'
                                                                                                                          30                                 (P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   95°'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     79.04'
                                                                                                                              .0'                              RI                               T-15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMMON AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 32
                                                                                                                                                                 VA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DEBRIS FLOW EXTENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26,089 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                         TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                     T-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMMON AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.599 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20'
                                                                                                                                                                              ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 390
                                                                         x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T-63                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               85.16
                                                                                                                                                                                 R                          33,805 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 38.28'
                                                                                                                                      COMMON AREA                                    EE                     0.776 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T-69                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10,959 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                       T)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARCEL C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 21.9
                                                                                                                                             14,271 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.252 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39.34'
                                                                                                                                             0.328 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25.3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            T-64
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T-70                                                      T-68              24.7'                                                                                                                                                                     23,066 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                17.3'                                                                              T-14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.530 acres                                                                                                 131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       51.27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T-67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .94
                                                                                     T-7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T-66                        T-65                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 301
                                                                                                                               T-10                               T-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13,133 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4'
                                                20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-71                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 389                                                                                                                                    0.301 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            64.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T-13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,651 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         154
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PUBLIC TRAIL EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 302




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15.
                                                                                     T-8
                                                                                                                                T-9                               T-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COMMON AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.222 acres                                                                                                                                                                                       11,197 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22,354 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PARCEL B                                                                                                                           (PRIVATE STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                30.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.257 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.513 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    143




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    69.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          21.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PRIVATE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       164
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        73'
                                                                                                                                                                         15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                             58,602 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.345 acres                                                T-72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 388                                                                                                                                              80.
                                                            ACCESS ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56.0                                                              17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-73                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10,323 sq.ft.                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                            56.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T-77                  T-78                                                                                                                                                 0.237 acres                                                                                                                                                                      3.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T-74                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DETENTION AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .6
                                                                                                                      (PUBLIC STREET)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T-75             T-76




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   151




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 315                                                                           70.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,001 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      69.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.207 acres                                                                                             5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11.7'                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 387
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCEPTUAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,952 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 314                                                                    64.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N 89°48'21" W                   1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NORTH 1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EAST  1399.36'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1399.36'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         24.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.22'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7,626 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.274 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT LAYOUT -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HIGHLAND CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.175 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            48.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 68.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VILLAGE 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             152.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2'                                                                                                                                                                        0'                                                                         LOT 313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               48.                                                         8,131 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.187 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            97.31'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 386                                                                                                                         23.0                                                                                                               .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51.0                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10,886 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                    7'                                                                                                                                                                 LOTPROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            312 NUMBER                  PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8684                   9/21/20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.250 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             38.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  54.                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 316                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,852 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                             J. GERA                R. ELDER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       123.87'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      22.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.203 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90                                                                      .00                    R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .63                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                69.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 385                                                                                                                                        118
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-101


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           74.93'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,527 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
            BENCHMARK
NORTH QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENSIGN
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

ELEV = 5244.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
                  R    @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sandy, UT 84070
                       PRIOR TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Phone: 801.255.0529
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
Know what's below.
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 89°43'24" E                                                             1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST  1076.44'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1076.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51.86'                                                             166.69'                                                                                                                                                  85.14'                                                                         81.29'                                                                                                                         136.87'                                                                             115.93'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         61.66'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL D                                                                                                                                            2,230 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5     '                                                                                     LOT 254                                                                                                                     7'                                                                                                                                                                           PARCEL G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.9            LOT 253                                                                                                                               (PRIVATE)                                                           .8                                                                              0.051 acres                                                                                                                                                              LOT 271                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CEDAR CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              103.57'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             09                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               111.23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       121.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 264




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          113.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,171 sq.ft.                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                   (PRIVATE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 265                                                                                                                         12,441 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             129.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10,497 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.279 acres                                                  11,728 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13,120 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.865.1453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15,091 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 148.25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9,518 sq.ft.                                                        0.286 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.241 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  34.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.269 acres                                                                                                                                                                           12,602 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               34.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.346 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         26.0'                          0.301 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.219 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                                                                     0.289 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'                                                                                                                                                                        .23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50.50'                                                                                               25                                   138                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    80       0         40        80   160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '                                                                                                                                                                         .68                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phone: 435.896.2983
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2'                                                                                                 .50                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                     0'                                                                                                                                                                             27.20' 20.82' 43.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .3                                                                                                   50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . 98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43                LOT 252                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50                                                                                                       7.63'                                                                                                                                                                   34.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PRIVATE STRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16,724 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     68.72                                                                                                                                                                                         ET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0    '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.384 acres                                                                                                                                                                              2.7                                                         LOT 263




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             118.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HORZ: 1 inch = 80 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16.52'                                                                                           22.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12,117 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           136.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.278 acres                                                                                                                                                                                5.67'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    76.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              76.95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .07                                                                                    140.27'                                                                                                                                                           LOT 255




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    90                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 266




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                81.09'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     122.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,980 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .73
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,734 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 249                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.275 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.201 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REGAL HOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 262




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EET)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15,235 sq.ft.                                                                                        LOT 251




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60.60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23.85




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.350 acres                                                                                          10,457 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,743 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.201 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IC STR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.240 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 273




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51.37'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                . 36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      125.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 125.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                           5'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         129.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTACT:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           97
                                                                                                                                                                                        4.3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 256                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             125.00                                                                                                                              LOT 267




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          67.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30,289 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 257.55
                                                                                                                                                                                     16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RICHARD COOK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 248                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,125 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,438 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                           0.695 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PHONE:    801-232-1898




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PUBL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         65.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9'                                                                                                                                      0.187 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 250                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 261




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            159.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 14,129 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.194 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .5                                                                                            46.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  80.25'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.324 acres                                                                                                       10,112 sq.ft.                                     11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,815 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51.59'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45.50'                                           0.232 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               125.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                       0.202 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          125.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (PRIVATE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.97' 46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 51.59'
                                                                                                                          9' '                                                      153                                                                                                                                                        '                                     PARCEL E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 268                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           268,613 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   67.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 257                                                                                        128.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                       8.7 .29                                                            .31'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .39




                                                                                                                  8             78                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.167 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11                                                                                                                                                                                    9,781 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,438 sq.ft.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .40
                                                                                                               11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     46.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              66.79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .73'
                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ' 15.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.225 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.194 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              75.42'
                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25,096 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 260




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           74.83'
                                                                                                                                                                  13,185 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             54'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  48.20'
                                                                             "         WEST
                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                       EAST   1188.79'
                                                                                       NORTH 1188.79'
                                                                                             1188.79'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.                                                                     0.576 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10,607 sq.ft.
                                                                         '33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     49'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            95.24
                                                                                                                        5325




                                                                                                                                                                  0.303 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30.51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                        48                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.243 acres                                                                                                                         125.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.71'
                                                                                                                                                                 212                                                                                                                                                                                                      POCKET PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47.55'
                                                       °                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        126.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 269




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            67.28'
                                                                                                                                                                    .60'
                                                     51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         86.57'                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                    115.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           817.53'




                                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 258                                                                                                    149.98                                                                                                                        8,604 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.81'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     33.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         98.57'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             47.34'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       68.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.81'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,318 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.198 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5475
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                         53 LOT 246                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2'                                                                                         (PUBL
                                                                                                                                           25                                                                                                                              31.4 33.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.214 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31.
                                                                                                                                              15,582 sq.ft.                                                                                                                          4'                                                                                                                  IC STR                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 259




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          42.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'




                                                                                                                                              0.358 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11,447 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         54.9                                                                                                                                                                                                   105.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 133.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27.81'
                                                      T-32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6  '                                                                                                                                                                                                              '                                                                 0.263 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 234                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VILLAGE 2: 93 LOTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 270
                                                                                                                                                                                                             67.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11.17'
                                                                                                                                                                159.2                                                                                                             10,425 sq.ft.                                                                      40.79'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135.56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18.70'
                                                                                                                                                                        8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     125.42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.239 acres                                                                                                                  70.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                  13,264 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           47.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       80.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             56.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                            33                                                                                              0.305 acres                                                                                                                                                                                    80.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 235




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            545
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .67
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70.00'
                                                                                                                                                      LOT 245
                                                                                                                              124.01'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,411 sq.ft.                                    LOT 236




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 125.45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              148.80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120.00


                                                                                                                                                      13,200 sq.ft.                                                                                                                     '                                                   0.193 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                    67.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,400 sq.ft.                                     LOT 237
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 233

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120.00
                                                                                                                                                      0.303 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          133.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.193 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                          107.72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41.13'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8,787 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                         8,400 sq.ft.                                  LOT 238                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   120.00
                                                                                      T-33                            20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.202 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       75.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,400 sq.ft.                                 LOT 239                                                            LOT 223




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .67
                                                                                                                                                                128.06'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.193 acres                                  8,400 sq.ft.                                                       9,630 sq.ft.                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28.87'




                                                       T-34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 274
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.221 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  231.28'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         123.04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.193 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                            143.39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       56.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                                                                                                          70.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '                                                                                                                                                       14,100 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                           LOT 244                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 75.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 222                                                                    15.61'                                                                                                               0.324 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              53.46'
                                                                                                                                                           9,208 sq.ft.                                             56.0'
                                                                                                                                        75.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 231




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             132.61                                                                                                                                                    13,475 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                           0.211 acres                                                                                            LOT 232                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                129.26'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                              70.00'                                           70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 230                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 224                                                                                                                                                           0.309 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114.68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   74.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12,579 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100.20




                                                                                                                                                                  120.01'                                                                                         0.289 acres                                                                                             8,155 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                               9,497 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        121.79




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 229                                                                                                                                                                  0.218 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.187 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       181.40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'
                                                                              T-56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70.27'
                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 243                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9,080 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     75.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    137.64




                                                                                                                                                                   9,168 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                             71.75'                                                                                           0.208 acres                                  LOT 228                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 221                                                                                                                                                                                                  56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        138.73
                                                                                                                                             75.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                   0.210 acres                                                                                                   57.95                                                                                   63.26                                                                                            10,190 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                       12,719 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           32.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 227


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               153.50


                                                                                      T-57                                                                                                                                                                        3'                                                                                                                                  7.36                                                                0.234 acres                                                                                                           LOT 225                                                                                                                                                           0.292 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '                                                                                                          11,300 sq.ft.                                                              9,926 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                         126.99'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             71.7                                                                                    0.259 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    56.0'
                                                                                                                                  24.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7'                                                                                                                                                       0.228 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  181.99




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               48.2




                                                                                                          T-58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 242                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.69
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                                                        (PU                                          71.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                      COMMON AREA                                                                            10,245 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                  146.28'                                                                                                                                               7'                                                                                                            144.86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                                                                                            12,711 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                  75.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45.21'
                                                                                                                61,360 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    74.36'



                                                                                                                                                                             0.235 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               98'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.292 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9'
                                                                              22.6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           204.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PUBLIC S
                                                                                                                1.409 acres                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 210                                                           6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    71.7                                                                        LOT 226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ET)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           104.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4'




                                                                                                                                                                                     146.59'                                                                                                                             13,288 sq.ft.                                                                         70.0                                                                                                        7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 275



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   71.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'                                                                                                                                                                    13,006 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         57.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.305 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5375
                                                                                                          T-59                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             178.65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.299 acres                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,357 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         86.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 241                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8'                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 219
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75.37'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.376 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         66.20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.0
                                                           (PRIVATE STREET)




                                                                                                                                                                                    11,205 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 211                                                                         0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12,121 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14.85'
                                                                                                                                                       75.00'




                                                                                                          T-60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,323 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.53                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                    0.257 acres                                                                                                                    132.66'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .26                                                                                                     0.278 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.191 acres                                                                                                     70.0                                                                                                                                   31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     71.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 209                                                                                                                  LOT 212                                                                  0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   185.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33.95




                                                                                                                                                                                          147.96'                                                                                                             8,452 sq.ft.                                                                                                            8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  162.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40.95'




                                                                                                          T-61                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            56.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     75.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.194 acres                                                                                                             0.193 acres                                                                                                   0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 213                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              66.20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101.55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    129




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13.9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15,504 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             121.82'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            36.44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         65.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.46'                                                                                                                         LOT 218                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.356 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    58.81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            64.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                              71.16'




                                                                                                                                                                                     11,477 sq.ft.                                                                                                           111.95'                                                                                                                                                            0.193 acres                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INA
                                                                                                          T-62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 214                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13,254 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 293
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.




                                                                                                                                                                                     0.263 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                              2     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.304 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 208                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,402 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11,280 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              48.45'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               53.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .35'
                                                                                                                    20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 207




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8'                                                                                                                                                                                                    56.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  51.06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,766 sq.ft. 5300                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.193 acres                                                                                                              00'                                       63      '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.259 acres                                                                                                                                     187.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                    101.72'                                       0'                                                                                                                                                                                                              16.2                                                                                                               LOT 215                                                                                                             51.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         58.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .3                                                                                                                             8,750 sq.ft.                                                                                   2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30                                                                            0.201 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             86.99




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,755 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                       13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 277
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .80'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.201 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 206
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8'                                                                                 0.201 acres                                                                                                                                                                   0'                                                                                                                                                                                             110.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16,281 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 30.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        88.06                                                                                                                                                                               16.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    116




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                        8,051 sq.ft.                                                                             2'                                                                                                        LOT 216




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.374 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100.60'
                                                                95°'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.185 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5325
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 205                                                           8'                                                                                     11,655 sq.ft.                                                                              LOT 217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   65.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 292




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       81.44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  139.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9'                                                                                                                                                                   16.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              114




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,091 sq.ft.                                                                           2'                                                                0.268 acres                                                                                18,264 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                    79.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,516 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             53.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              207.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.186 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.419 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                              32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.195 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              82.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .46'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  72.6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 278
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         117




                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 390                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2'
                                                                                                                                                           3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  32.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,466 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              115.49'
                                                                                                                                                         .7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      85.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                               38.28'




                                                                              PARCEL C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15,669 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                      82




                                                                                                                                                                         10,959 sq.ft.                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                 70.                                             0.194 acres                                                                                                 70.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08'                                                                                                                                                               0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.360 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               39.34'




                                                                                                                                                                         0.252 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 203
                                                                              (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          65.12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9                                                     (PU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          37.8                                                                   97.6                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 291




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    79.90
                                                                               23,066 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9,179 sq.ft.                                                                                                       8'
                                                                                                                                                                       131                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLI                                                                  70.                                                                                                                                                                                32.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,016 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.65'
                                                                                                                                                                          .00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.211 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          51.27




                                                                               0.530 acres                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 301                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .48'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.0                                                                                                   4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   221.94'
                                                                                                                                  4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 202                                                                                        2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.207 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRE
                                                                                                                                 .9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   82.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             137
                                                                                                                              55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13,133 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                 ET)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 279
                                                                                                                                                      LOT 389                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,949 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.301 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  126.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 302                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16,398 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.228 acres
                                                                                                                    71'




                                                                                                                                                    9,651 sq.ft.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70.                                                                                     .10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       154




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .55'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21'                                                                                    '                                                                                         LOT 201
                                                                                                                 15.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.376 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        63.07'
                                                                                                                                                    0.222 acres                                                                                                                                                      11,197 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      145
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18                                                                              10,258 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 290
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .29'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  56




                                                                                                                                                  143                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .97
                                                                                                                                                                                             4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.257 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARCEL I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .71'




                                                                                                                                                      .64'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                            69.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 303
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.82




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.235 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          164




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    66.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10,675 sq.ft.
                                                                                                          73'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             146




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11,686 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                70.                                                                                                                                                                                (PRIVATE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              230.63'
                                                                                                         70.




                                                                                                                                LOT 388                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.245 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        76.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .75'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23.46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          56.0                                                1  7'                                                                                         0.268 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       143,117 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 280




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             82.19'
                                                                                                                               10,323 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 304                                                                                      18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168




                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .99                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.286 acres                                                                                                                                       157.74'                                                                                                                                                         16,178 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                               0.237 acres                                                                                                                                     3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '                                                                                           56.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .63'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7'                                                                                                                        11,821 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                     74'
                                                                                                                              151                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.371 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 315




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                              4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.271 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .10                                                                                                      13.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53




                                                                                                                                  .31'                                                                                                                                                                 70.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                         70.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15'                                                                                                                                     LOT 305                                                                            '                                                                                                           9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     00
                                                                 6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,001 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 289
                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75.07'
                                                       69.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.207 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                       11,600 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,133 sq.ft.
                                                                                                               LOT 387                                                                                                                                                                                                        4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 314                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             203.32'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               109




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       84.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.266 acres                                                                                                         27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          64.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.301 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                               11,952 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             24.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7,626 sq.ft.                                                       61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 306                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 281
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               162




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                               0.274 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           48.4                                                                                                                                  5.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.175 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       120.00'                                                                                                                                       12,681 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1'                                                                                                                                 8'                                                                                                                    11,071 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 88
                                                                                                                                                                8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S 0°21'16" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.291 acres
                                                                                                                                                           68.0




                                                                                                           152.9                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH 2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST  2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2582.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     64.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.254 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34.80'
                                                                                                                      2'                                                                                                                                  0'                                                                                                                             3          7'                                                                                                                                                                                                                         54.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   48.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 307                                                                                       54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8,131 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 288
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     154




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08'                                                                                                                                     6.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                68.69'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCEPTUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12                                      0.187 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                10,748 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9.8




                                                                                LOT 386
                                                                                                                                                      6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                     4'                                                                                .00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            146.48'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .72
                                                                                                                                                                                             23.0                                                                                                                                                       LOT 312                                                                       64.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .51'
                                                                                                                                                  18.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.247 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11




                                                                                                                                                                                                             51.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14'                                                                                                                                       LOT 308




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40
                                                                                 10,886 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 282
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT LAYOUT -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              153




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70                                             8,645 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PARCEL J
                                                                                                                                                                                            3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.2                                                                                                                           11,928 sq.ft.                                                                                                            5275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70.00'
                                                                                 0.250 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 120.00'                                                                                                                        8,810 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                       38.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4'
                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 316 54.71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                  0.198 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 285
                                                                                                                                                9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (PRIVATE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.274 acres
                                                                                                                                            46.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               63.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.202 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 311                                                                  91'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VILLAGE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,852 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,351 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                    3'




                                                                                       123.87'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27,288 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 287                                                                    56.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                   22.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,151 sq.ft.                                         LOT 310                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.375 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15




                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.203 acres                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.626 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.210 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                90                                                              '                                                                                                             10,029 sq.ft.                                         07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .63                                            (PU
                                                                               LOT 385                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           69.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '                                                                                                                                                               0.230 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                    118                                                                                                                                      BL                                                                                                                                                                                          08'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 283
                                                                                                                                   70.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                           .97'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              61.99'




                                                                               8,527 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 317                                                                                                                                                         IC                           60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .37                                                                                                     7'                                                         63.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (P                                                                                                     120.00'                                                                                                                  8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                               0.196 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 318                                                                                     S             TR                                                                                                                     0.1                                                                      58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UB         16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                         112.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                                                                                       13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    28.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8684                   9/21/20
                                                                                  114.39'
                                                                                                                                                                                     8,919 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,798 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00                                          EE                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .04                      63.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LIC .46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'




                                                                                                                                                                                     0.205 acres                                                                                                                                   '                                                  T)                            '                      6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               41.85' 8.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              52.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      65.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.225 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'




                                                                                                                                                      56.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                        RE                                                                       LOT 286                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 J. GERA                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      41.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 309
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                              ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 319
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12




                                                                              LOT 384                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .74                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0'                                                                                                     12,124 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
                                                                                                                                 67.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                 18,009 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 348                                                                                                                                           0.278 acres                                                                                                                   LOT 284
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75.00'

                                                                              9,343 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,819 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31
                                                                                                                                                                                              97.97'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.413 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .79
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.202 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5275                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,939 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11,343 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8'




                                                                              0.214 acres                                                                                                                                                    .22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31.42'




                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 328                                          '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.205 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.260 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            37.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX-102
                                                                                            '                                                                                                                                                               5.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12                                                                                                                                                             70.
                                                                                      124.75                                                                                                        10,759 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16'                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9,025 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                       10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     48.57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70




                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.247 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              69                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          36.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.207 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 347
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .09
                                                                                                                                                                                    127




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .82                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                           66.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .21




                                                                                  LOT 383
                                                                                                                                                                                        .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              28
                                                                                                                                                                                      41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                             3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
            BENCHMARK
NORTH QUARTER OF SECTION 23,
TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENSIGN
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I NA
ELEV = 5244.33'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     58.63'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.3                                                                 0.201 acres                                                                                                                                                  2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          86.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,755 sq.ft.                                                                                                                             13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 277




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .80'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  23.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.201 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 206




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            64.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8'                                                                              0.201 acres                                                                                                                                    0'                                                                                                                                                                                               110.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT LAKE CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16,281 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  88.06                                                                                                                                                                                   16.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               116
                           (PUBLIC STREET)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                           8,051 sq.ft.                                                                             2'                                                                                                       LOT 216




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.92'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.374 acres                                                                                                               45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.60'
                                                                                                                                     95°'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   53.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.185 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .51'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5325
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 205                                                 8'                                                                                          11,655 sq.ft.                                                  LOT 217
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  65.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 292




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                       CALL BLUESTAKES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8 1 .4 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           139.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9'                                                                                                                                                                 16.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sandy, UT 84070




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,091 sq.ft.                                                                2'                                                                      0.268 acres                                                    18,264 sq.ft.
                       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS                           15.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,516 sq.ft.
                  R

                               COMMON AREA                                                                                                                                                                                        79.04'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               53.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           207.3                                                                                                                     Phone: 801.255.0529




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.186 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.419 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32
                       PRIOR TO THE 26,089 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.195 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           82.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4'                                                                               LOT 204




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 278




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     117
                       COMMENCEMENT    OFacres
                                    0.599  ANY                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 390                                                                                       .20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                 .73
                                                                         T-63                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32                           85.16                                                                                                                                                                                                8,466 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        115.49'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38.28'
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                     PARCEL C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15,669 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                               82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10,959 sq.ft.                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                            70.                                         0.194 acres                                                                                               70.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     08'                                                                                                                                                    0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .23'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.360 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.252 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 203
                                                        25.3'
                                                                                                                                         (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Phone: 801.547.1100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65.12'
                                                                       T-64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9                                              (PU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 37.8                                                 97.6                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 291




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    79.90
                                                                                                                                             23,066 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,179 sq.ft.                                                                                      8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  131
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BLI                                                                                  70.                                                                                                                                                             32.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,016 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.65'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.211 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     51.27
                                                                                                                                             0.530 acres                                                                                                                                                       LOT 301                                                                                                                                                                                                                     44'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .48'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  221.94'                                                                                                                           TOOELE




                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STR                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.207 acres




                                                                                                                                                                          .94
                                  T-66        T-65                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.02                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82.19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   137
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EET




                                                                                                                                                                       55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13,133 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 279
                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 389                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,949 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone: 435.843.3590




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               64.84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .78'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.301 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             126.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 302                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16,398 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.228 acres




                                                                                                                                                                71'
                                                                                                                                                                                              9,651 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17.05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70.                                                                              .10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              154




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21'                                                                           '                                                                                   LOT 201




                                                                                                                                                              15.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.376 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          63.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                              0.222 acres                                                                                                                                                      11,197 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CEDAR CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                145
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .0'
                              (PRIVATE STREET)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18                                                                        10,258 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .29'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 290




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56
                                                                                                                                                                                            143                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.257 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                .64'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 435.865.1453




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           69.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 303




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.235 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      164




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          66.38'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10,675 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE




                                                                                                                                                    73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     146
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11,686 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                      70.                                                                                                                                                     (PRIVATE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   78'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      230.63'




                                                                                                                                                   70.
                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 388                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.245 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            76.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RICHFIELD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .75'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23.46'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     56.0                                                17'                                                                                                0.268 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 143,117 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 280                                                                                                        40             160




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          82.19'
                                                                                                                                                                            10,323 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 304                                                                                           18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          80       0                   80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                            0.237 acres                                                                                                                                   3.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                                            56.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.286 acres                                                                                                                           157.74'                                                                                                                                                   16,178 sq.ft.                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.896.2983




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .63'
                                              T-77       T-78                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7'                                                                                                                       11,821 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                          74'
                                  T-76                                                                                                                                     151                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.371 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 315




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .15'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.271 acres                                                                                                     .10                                                                                                13.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53
                                                                                                                                                                               .31'                                                                                                                                                           70.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15'                                                                                                                                                 LOT 305                                                                  '                                                                                            9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                    56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9,001 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 289                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ( IN FEET )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75.07'
                                                                                                                                  69.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.207 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                           11,600 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,133 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HORZ: 1 inch = 80 ft.
                                                                                                                                                         LOT 387
                                               20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 314                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            203.32'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         109




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41.34'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        84.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.                                                                                                              0.266 acres                                                                                            27'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.301 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (PUBLIC STREET)
                                                                                                                                                         11,952 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 281
                                                                                                                         18.22'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7,626 sq.ft.                                                         61'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 306




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          162
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                         0.274 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48.4                                                                                                                                       5.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.175 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           36.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120.00'                                                                                                                               12,681 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'                                                                                                                                 8'                                                                                                                    11,071 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    73.41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    88
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S 0°21'16" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16.1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.291 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                        68.0
                                                                                                                                                      152.9                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NORTH 2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2582.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2582.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      64.                                                                                                 0.254 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .72'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         34.80'
                                                                                                                                                           2'                                                                                                                                       0'                                                                                                                                       37'                                                                                                                                                                                                                   54.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             48.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 307                                                                                54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,131 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 288                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FOR:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                154
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08'                                                                                                                                     6.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         68.69'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REGAL HOMES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12                                    0.187 acres                                                                                        '                                                                                                         10,748 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,400 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.8
                                                                                                                         97.31'




                                                                                                                                                LOT 386


                                                                                                                                                                                               6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4'                                                                           .00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             146.48'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23.0 51                                                                                                                                                LOT 312                                                                         64.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .51'
                                                                                                                                                                                            18.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.247 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14'                                                                                                                       LOT 308




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                10,886 sq.ft.                                                                                                .07'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 282




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         153
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70                                                    8,645 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARCEL J                                                                                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.2                                                                                                         11,928 sq.ft.                                                                                              5275




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70.00'
                                                                                                                                                0.250 acres                                                                                                                                                                                         .00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            120.00'                                                                                                              8,810 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4'
                                                                                                                                                                                        9'                                                           LOT 316 54.71'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                                                0.198 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 285                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (PRIVATE)                                                                                                CONTACT:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.274 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                       46.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          63.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.202 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 311                                                                  91'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RICHARD COOK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,852 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16,351 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3'
                                                                                                                                                  123.87'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27,288 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 287                                                                         56.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9,151 sq.ft.                                          LOT 310                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.375 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   801-232-1898




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.203 acres                                                                                                                          70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PHONE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          45.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.626 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.210 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,400 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           90                                                                       '                                                                                                      10,029 sq.ft.                                     07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      120.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .63                                               (PU
                                                                                                                                             LOT 385                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    69.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '                                                                                                                                                                      0.230 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 283
                                                                                                                         74.93'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  118                                                                                                                                     BL                                                                                                                                                                                        08'
                                                                                                                                                                              70.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           61.99'
                                                                                                                                             8,527 sq.ft.                                                                                            .97'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IC      6                                                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (P                                                                                                                120.00'                                                                                                          8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                             0.196 acres                                                                          LOT 317                                                           LOT 318                                                                                           ST 0.37'                                                                                                                          0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7                                                           63.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           58'                                                                                                                                                                                                        UB 163.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       112.23'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28.10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,919 sq.ft.                                                                                                                      70                             RE     1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIC
                                                                                                                                                114.39'                                                                                                                                              9,798 sq.ft.                                                          .00                             ET 0.04'                                                                  63.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.205 acres                                                                                                                            '                                                                                                          6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41.85' 8.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     65.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.225 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.14'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 56.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10                            RE                                                                                         LOT 286




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        120.10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              41.35'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 309




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                             ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 319                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                         LOT 384                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .74                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,124 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75
                                         EX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '                       )
                                                                                                                                                                             67.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                 18,009 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.278 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 348                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 284




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75.00'
                                                                                                                                            9,343 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                     8,819 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               97.97'
                                                                                                                        92.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.
                                           IS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.413 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .79




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.202 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5275                                                                                                                                                                 8,939 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,343 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8'
                                                                                                                                            0.214 acres                                                                                                                                 .22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.1
                                                 T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         37.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31.42'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 328                                  '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.205 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.260 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         37.88'
                                                       GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                                                          '                                                                                       10,759 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.8                                                                      LOT 320                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                                       70.
                                                                                                                                                 124.75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16'                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,025 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48.57
                                                         S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.247 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.207 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 347




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .21
                                                                LI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  127




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .82                                                                                                                                                                                                               6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    63.08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'
                                                                                                                                                                                      66.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 55
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                  NE                                                                                                                                                                                                            .6                                                                                                                                                                                                   50.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .21
                                                                                                                                                LOT 383
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31.19'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                          3'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1.1
                                                                                                                                                11,364 sq.ft.                                                                                                                        LOT 327                                                    9'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12 0.193 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5250
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 321                                                                                                       8'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                60.
                                                                                                                        79.12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VILLAGE 3: 109 LOTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .00
                                                                                                                                                0.261 acres                                                                                                                          10,040 sq.ft.                                                            70                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0'                                                                                                                                           79'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .10                                            9,837 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                  8'                                                                                                                 0.230 acres 1'                                                                                                               0.226 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 346                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             35.66




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                            .1                                                                                                                                     9.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 349




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 322




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 133.48'
                                                                                                                                                         141




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                      65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10,068 sq.ft.                                                                                 '                                                                                                79.05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 326                                                                       70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15,685 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARCEL K                                                                                                                    12  0.193 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          82.10'
                                                                                                                        24




                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.231 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               68




                                                                                                                                                              LOT 382                                                                                                                                               10,066 sq.ft.                                                                       .66                                                                                  0.360 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                            .72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .05




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                                                                                                                            (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                          0'
                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.231 acres 1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00
                                                                                                                                                               10,452 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 345                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           120,578 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13
                                                                                                                                                               0.240 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                 8'                                                                                                                           14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                            .3                                                                                                                                                       LOT 325                                                                              52                                                                                                                                                2.768 acres                                                                                           8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                           11,484 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .73
                                                                                                                                                                                         21                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                        1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.264 acres
                                                                                                                                                  98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12 0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10,738 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .07
                                                                                                                                                    .68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       75
                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 381                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 351




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.247 acres 0'                                                                                        .10
                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.2                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,162 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15,198 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15                                                                                                          51                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 344                                                                                                                                                  LOT 353                                                                                                                                                                              LOT 352




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .46
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.210 acres                     '                                                                                                                                                      LOT 324                                                                                .02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.349 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .00
                                                                                                                                                                     29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                                                       8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                           11,250 sq.ft.                                .00                                                                                                                                      22,012 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .00
                                                                                                                                                                           .96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                        221.24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        308
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,410 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70




                                                                                                                                       LOT 391                                                                         12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.258 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12 0.193 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.505 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 380                                                                                                                                                  0.262 acres 0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.8
                                                                                                                                       17,373 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .43
                                                                                                                                                                                       52




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'                                                                                                        80                                           0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00
                                                                                                                                                                                            .51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 343




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00
                                                                                                                                       0.399 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.193 acres '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 323                                                                                                                                                                                          8,759 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   93
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.201 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,394 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 379
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.285 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'
                                                                                                                                                                       2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 355                                                                       75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            108.                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .44
                                                                                                                                                                     136.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                85'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51                                                                          12,768 sq.ft.                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 354
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70




                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 392                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.293 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24,679 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ET




                                                                                                                                                                             10,933 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             87




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    88




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 378                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.567 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29.81'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )




                                                                                                                                                                             0.251 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 342                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 356                                                                                 .00                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                                                                                              '                                                                             8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                        33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         67




                                                                                                                                         50.00'                                                           0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                             1311.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .11
                                                                                                                             .97




                                                                                                                                                                40                                                                                                                          0.193 acres '                                                                                                                      4.7                                                                                                                                                                       15,546 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                   12,504 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                   12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                   .76                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0                                                                                                                           0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .80                                              0.287 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00




                                                                                                                                                                       '                                     LOT 393                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.357 acres




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                            LOT 377                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        66
                                                                                                                                                                       7.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             44.           11                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LOT 357
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31' 1                                             UB                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.24 .21'
                                                                                                                                                                          0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    97.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                96
                                                                                                                                                                     12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '                                               LI                                                                                       12,974 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12                                                                                                                                    75


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .12
                                                                                                                                                                       .41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12                                                                                                                 0                                                    19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C                         .24
                                                                                             N 0°15'21" E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.298 acres


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                      WEST
                                                                                                      EAST
                                                                                                      SOUTH
                                                                                                      NORTH 1311.84'
                                                                                                            1311.84'
                                                                                                             1311.84'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 394                                                                                                                                                 .54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 341                                                                                              ST                 '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       67                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   32.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 358
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 376                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 329                                                                                        9,521 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '                  5.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                              ET                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.219 acres 0.66                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17,436 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                                                                                             9,274 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                              10,088 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4                                                                                                                                 .51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.400 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12                                                                                                   0.213 acres                                                                                                                                                                               0.232 acres                                                                                                                   LOT 340
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 395                                                                                                                                              R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .7                                                                                                                                                                                   0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9,574 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                                       .04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,400 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IC                                                                                                                                                            12                                                                                                         0.220 acres 2'                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 330                                                                                                      3.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               218
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                                                                         13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT 339




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0'
                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .71




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  145.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            54
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8'
                                                                                                                                                               88'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 396                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.193 acres '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0                                                                                                      10,097 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 359
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                              145.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,914 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 409                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12                                                                                                            0.232 acres 6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15,547 sq.ft.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 331                                                                                                 5.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.205 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .61
                                                                                                                                                                       12,752 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14                                                                                                                                                                                               0.357 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,400 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 338
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                       0.293 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           520




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.193 acres '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                                                                                                        10,199 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70




                                                                                                                                                                                                        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0'                                                                                                                                        0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        77.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.0                                                                                                                                         1 2                                                                                                              0.234 acres '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31.42'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                              13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 332                                                                                         2.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135.62'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 375                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    56


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 360




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               55.14'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARCEL N                                                                                                     9,100 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 337                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (PRIVATE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                57
                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,100 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.193 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,642 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                               65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.209 acres '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             70




                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.0
                                                                                                                                                                  .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,097 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      266,113 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42.96'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.198 acres
                                                                                                                                                                     0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                       (P                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.209 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.109 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                               13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13                                                                                                                                                                                 LOT 333




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15.40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31,489 sq.ft.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 407                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LOT 374                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                      70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.723 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                         .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C                                                                                                                                                                                       9,100 sq.ft.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,100 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.193 acres '                                                                             1                                                                                                                       120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '
                                                                                                                                                                                             '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0                                                                              PARCEL L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 361
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                                                                                 RE                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0                                                                                                                                                    12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00
                                                        5150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13                                                                                                ET                                                                                  0'                                                                                      1 3                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 334                                                            (PRIVATE)                                                                                                      8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '                                                                                                                                                 .0                                                                                                                  LOT 373
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0                                                                                )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.193 acres

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6,431 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,100 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 397                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0.193 acres '                                                           0.148 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        POCKET PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 406                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,400 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,100 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0                                                                                                                                              12                                                .39                                                                                                                         120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.193 acres '                                                                                                         13                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 335                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 362
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5175




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                      LOT 372
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,400 sq.ft.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,100 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 398                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.193 acres '                                              57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                            .45                                                                                        0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.209 acres '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.0                                                                                                                                                12                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.193 acres '                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                      LOT 371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 336
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  120.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12                                                                                                                          9,100 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOT 399
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  76.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 363
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            46                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10,775 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.209 acres '



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  68.05'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8,931 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                                                                                                                                    0.247 acres                                                                                                                8,400 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '




                                                                                                                                                                                              PARCEL O                                                                                                                                                            1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.205 acres                                                                                             13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.193 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.3                                                                                                                                                                        2.3                                                                                                          LOT 370                                                                                                       113
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                              (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                              13                                                                                                                                                                              11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .94'                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,100 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 405                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .6
                                                                                 HIGHLAND CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                               163,265 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.209 acres '                                                                                                                                                                                                                               119.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0'
                                                                                                                                  DRAPER CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10,144 sq.ft.                                                                                                                        10.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11,466 sq.ft.                                                                                               0                                           33
                                                                                                                                                                                                3.748 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      57




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           82'                                                                                                                                                                                                      .45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .67




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.233 acres                                                                                                                                                                           0.263 acres                                                                                           13                                                          '                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 364
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51.66'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                     11.8                                                                                                                                                                LOT 369
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13.2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9,510 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         52.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9,129 sq.ft.                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCEPTUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   111.43'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DETENTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .41




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1'                                                                                                                                                0.218 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 404                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.210 acres 6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        72.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         71'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BASIN/PARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.6                                                                         58.07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT LAYOUT -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,332 sq.ft.                                                                                                                                                                        158.31'                                                                                                   13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.260 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .00                                124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LOT 368                                                                                                    48.5                                    50                                                 .55'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            98.30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VILLAGE 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          88.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,625 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           92'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5.13'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .39'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARCEL P 52.2                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.267 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOT 367
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   72.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOT 401                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOT 365
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      140.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LOT 403                                                                                                  LOT 402
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       08'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11,872 sq.ft.                                LOT 366
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               123.82'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (PRIVATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15,215 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          119.23'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14,256 sq.ft.                                                                                           16,288 sq.ft.                                                               20,252 sq.ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.273 acres                                  9,584 sq.ft.                                                         0.349 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,590 sq.ft.                                                                                                                     0.465 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   98'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.327 acres                                                                                             0.374 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.220 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8684                   9/21/20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          99.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.037 acres
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3     .63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     49.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         80.17'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            80.17'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       09'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127.31'                                                                                                          158.29'                                                                                                     185.18'                                                                             96.21'                                                     93.89'                                                        85.34'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      J. GERA                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N 89°47'56" W                                                       1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH 1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH 1583.21'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1583.21'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAND CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALPINE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INE CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EX-103
                                   4" ASPHALTIC CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENSIGN
     ROW




                                                                                                                                                    ROW
                                                                                    56'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THE STANDARD IN ENGINEERING

           2'-0"           8'-0"        2'-6"                         15'-6"
                                                                                    ℄            15'-6"                            2'-6"   10'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45 W. 10000 S., Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                   26'-0"                                                                                                                                                                              Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 801.255.0529
                                                                      2.0%                        2.0%                                                                                                                                                                                2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13'-0"                     13'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                 23'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                            6"                                   2'-0"                                                                                                                                                 LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2%                  2%                                             Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                    2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOOELE
                                   PROPERLY PREPARED SUBGRADE OR                             22" UNTREATED BASE COURSE COMPACTED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 435.843.3590
SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY           FILL COMPACTED PER GEOTECHNICAL                           PER GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND
 STANDARD PLAN ST-12 AND                  REPORT AND SPECIFICATIONS                          SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                       ROLLED CONCRETE                                                                                                                                      CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                              RIBBON CURB                                                                                   REVERSE PAN MOUNTABLE
          SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB & GUTTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONCRETE CURB & GUTTER                                                             MOUNTABLE CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CURB & GUTTER            RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Phone: 435.896.2983




                                                  1        56' ROAD CROSS SECTION                                                                         2   26' PRIVATE ROAD CROSS SECTION                                                               3         30' PRIVATE ROAD CROSS SECTION                                                                WWW.ENSIGNENG.CO
                                                                                               SCALE:NONE                                                                                                                   SCALE:NONE                                                                                                           SCALE:NONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FOR:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REGAL HOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9216 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS, UTAH 84093
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RICHARD COOK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHONE:    801-232-1898




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  54'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2'-0"                                          2'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHOULDER                                       SHOULDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                        12'-0"                           13'-0"             13'-0"                       12'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAINAGE SWALE                                                                                    DRAINAGE SWALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2%                    2%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEQUOIAS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NDS TT-24 REINFORCED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15900 SOUTH 2800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TURF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                5     26' EMERGENCY ACCESS ROAD CROSS SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE:NONE




                                                  4        46' ROAD CROSS SECTION
                                                                                               SCALE:NONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROAD CROSS SECTIONS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT NUMBER         PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8684                   7/7/20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWN BY               CHECKED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J. GERA                R. ELDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R. ELDER



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EX-104
        EXHIBIT F
SUMMIT POINTE SUBDIVISION
