                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                             March 20, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 2, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      Restaurant Use Sign TA–Text Amendment Request
         Application No.:   TEXTMAP-952-2020
         Applicant:         Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC
         Project Location:  City Wide
         Current Zoning:    City Wide
         Acreage:           N/A
         Request:           Request for approval of a Text Amendment to DCMC Section 9-26-070
                            regarding restaurant drive-through menu signage.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
Applicant Justin Grubb with YESCO Sign Company is requesting a Text Amendment change to the
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-26-070 to accommodate more modern upgrades for
restaurant drive-through menu boards so they can be digitally operated and controlled throughout the city.

 ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.
The proposed Text Amendment will affect properties in various land use categories, but will generally
impact commercial areas. While each commercial land use designation has different guiding principles,
the General Plan supports economic development by nurturing and supporting established business and
fosters a pro-business environment.

While the properties affected by the proposed change will have varied zoning designations, the affected
areas will be located in commercial based zones, and other zones that allow for restaurant type uses. The
DCMC: 9-8-020 (C) provides the following standard purpose for all commercial zones: “Commercial
zones are established to provide areas where a combination of business, commercial, entertainment,
office, and related activities may be established, maintained and protected. Commercial zones are
intended to provide a suitable environment for those commercial and service uses which are vital to the
economic base of the city.”




Restaurant Sign TA                                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-952-2020
Text Amendment Request                              1
Text Amendment
The applicant states that technology is changing rapidly, and implementing this ordinance Text
Amendment will keep businesses that utilize menu signs current with changing technology for their
business activity. According to the applicant, this more modern approach to the menu system will enable
more ease to switch from their breakfast menu to their lunch menu digitally for example, and creates a
greater aesthetic look to their menu system along with making it easier to read for their customers. Please
see Exhibit B for Legislative Draft.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                 title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                 determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                 overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                 practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.




Restaurant Sign TA                                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-952-2020
Text Amendment Request                               2
The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
              plan.
    2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
    3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
    4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
              or the general plan.
    5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to
              be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
              benefit.

The findings for denial as are follows:

     1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
        general plan.
     2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
        ordinance.
     3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not
        sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
     4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with other sections or parts of this title or the
        general plan.
     5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be
        detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
     6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban
        planning, design, and engineering practices.




MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC for the Restaurant Sign
Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-952-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated March 20, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, requested by Justin Grubb, as representing YESCO LLC for the
Restaurant Sign Text, application TEXTMAP-952-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 20, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC for the Restaurant Sign
Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-952-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report
dated March 20,




Restaurant Sign TA                                                                    App. # TEXTMAP-952-2020
Text Amendment Request                                3
                                 EXHIBIT A
                            DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.
1. None
                                             EXHIBIT B
                                         LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-26-070: PERMITTED ON PREMISES PERMANENT SIGNS
7. Restaurant Uses: Restaurants with drive-through facilities shall be allowed one on site freestanding
sign per drive-through lane, in addition to that otherwise permitted by this section, according to the
following requirements:

a. The additional freestanding sign shall be located more than thirty feet (30') from the closest public right
of way property line.

b. The additional freestanding sign shall not be located more than five feet (5') from the drive-through
lane.

c. The maximum area of such sign shall be forty five (45) square feet.

d. Such sign shall not be taller than seven feet (7').

e. Such signs shall be illuminated by internal means only. internally, backlit or illuminated digitally by
means of EMC or LCD subject to requirements in section 9-26-060(G) and the illumination standards
found in Section 9-26-090(D)(1)(f), and Section 9-20-040(B).

f. Such signs shall be identified and accommodated in the approved sign allowance and shall require a
sign permit prior to installation.
