                                        Development Review Committee
                                            1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, UT 84020
                                                       July 13, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: July 23, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      HBA Plaza at Draper – Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map
         Amendment Request
         Application No.:  TEXTMAP-991-2020, TEXTMAP-992-2020, TEXTMAP-993-2020
         Applicant:        Ross Ford, representing The Home Builders Association of Utah (HBA)
         Project Location: 38 West 13775 South
         Current Zoning:   M1 (Light Manufacturing) Zone
         Acreage:          2.55 Acres (Approximately 111,306 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment to amend the 136 Center
                           Commercial Special District (CSD-136) code, and to rezone 2.55 acres of
                           property from M1 (Light Manufacturing) to CSD-136, and to amend the
                           Land Use Map from Business/Light Manufacturing to the Commercial
                           Special District designation.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use
Map Amendment for approximately 2.55 acres located at approximately 38 West 13775 South (Exhibit
C). The property is currently zoned M1 (Light Manufacturing). The applicant is requesting that a Text
Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment be approved to allow for existing
office building to be added to the CSD-136 (136 Center Commercial Special District) zone.

A Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan was approved on October 9, 2014 by the Planning Commission
to allow office warehouse uses on the property. The office building was partially constructed and left in
that state for a few years. The property was purchased in 2017 with plans to finish the office building, and
sell off the portion of property that was going to contain the warehousing portion of the development. A
plat, the Osmond Minor Subdivision, was approved July 18, 2017 dividing the warehousing portion from
the office portion of the property. The subject property is the office portion of the Osmond Minor
Subdivision. A Plat Amendment was approved on December 19, 2019 to convert the office building into
commercial condos.

The applicant has a medical tenant who would like to locate within the building (Exhibit G). The M1 zone
does not allow for medical services. The CSD-136 zone allows medical services as a permitted use.




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                           App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Business/Light
Manufacturing land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the M1 zoning classification (Exhibit E). According to Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the M1 zone is to “provide areas for uses
involving processing and assembly of manufactured goods, warehousing, and material storage. Uses
which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust, and fumes are excluded from this zone.” The
property abuts the M1 zone on the west and south sides, and the CSD-136 zone on the north. To the east
is I-15.

Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant is requesting to modify the land use designation for the entire
2.55 acres of property to the Commercial Special District designation (Exhibit B). This category is
characterized as follows:




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                          App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request   2
Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant is proposing to rezone the property from M1 to CSD-136 (Exhibit
B). The CSD -136 zone was created in 2016 to allow for a large office development. Per DCMC Section
9-18L-010 the purpose statement of the zone is as follows: “The 136 Center Commercial Special District
contains approximately 25.54 acres, located along 200 West and 13800 South as shown in section 9-18L-
100, exhibit A of this article. The size of the property allows for a master-planned, mixed-use office park.
The Draper City General Plan's goals and objectives are reflected in the overall district elements such as
land use, architectural standards, signage, site design and landscape standards. The Commercial District
of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the City while providing amenities to the
City residents.”

The HBA Plaza at Draper property has been developed as an office building. The uses within the CSD-
136 zone are geared towards office and commercial type uses, including office, personal instruction




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                           App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request   3
service, restaurant, retail, and medical services. The existing M1 zone has been designed to allow for
manufacturing type uses.

Text Amendment. The applicant is proposing a text amendment to the CSD-136 zone (Exhibit E). This
text amendment will include the property in the zoning exhibits, as well as make a few adjustments to the
code standards. This report will analyze each section that is being affected by the modifications.

DCMC Section 9-18L-010:
The proposed changes will modify the listed acreage within the zone purpose statement from 25.54 acres
to 28.09 acres to reflect the additional 2.55 acres of property being added to the boundary of the zoning
district.

DCMC Section 9-18L-030:
There is one proposed change to the development standards for office buildings within the CSD-136 zone.
The code currently requires 40% of a building façade to be in high efficiently glazing. The applicant is
proposing to exempt structural elements such as elevator shafts or stairwells from this requirement.

DCMC Section 9-18L-040:
The CSD-136 zone requires a 3-foot tall berm around the perimeter of the project to help minimize the
visual impact of the parking lot. The existing HBA office building does not contain any berming. The
applicant is requesting to modify the code to exempt the eastern property boundary along I-15 from this
standard. The freeway is a few feet higher in elevation than the subject property and therefore a berm may
be ineffective.

DCMC Section 9-18L-070:
The applicant is proposing to amend the signage standard to allow for two pole signs within the CSD-136
zone. The current code contemplates one pole sign along I-15. The change would allow a second sign
along I-15 on the HBA property. No changes to the size of signs are proposed. The pole sign would be
limited to a maximum of 35-feet tall and 25-feet wide.

DCMC Section 9-18L-100:
The exhibits section of the CSD-136 zone will be amended to show the property as part of the overall
boundary of the zone. The concept plan will be amended to show the built layout of the HBA site. The
exhibits include examples of office building elevations to help guide development. The amendment will
add an image of the HBA building to the example elevations. The exhibits will also be amended to
include an example of the proposed pole sign and possible location of the sign.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and
Text Amendment request are found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This
section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

          1. Map Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                 development in the vicinity of the subject property;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                 overlay zone;
              d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property; and
              e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including,
                 but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,



HBA Plaza at Draper                                                           App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request   4
                   schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse
                   collection.

          2. Text Amendments:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  city's general plan;
               b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                  ordinance;
               c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                  there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
               d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                  title or the general plan;
               e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                  determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                  overall community benefit; and
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                  practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The DCMC Section 9-2-020(F) lists the following criteria for a General Plan amendment:

         “Plan Amendment: All plan amendments shall be in accordance with Utah Code Annotated 10-
         9a-404, as amended and, unless requested by the city's legislative body, shall follow the
         procedures as outlined in Draper City Municipal Code 9-5-060(D).” That section is noted as
         follows:

         D.        Procedure: Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed as
                   provided in this subsection:
                   1.     A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
                          administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
                          established by the city’s schedule of fees. The application shall include at least
                          the following information:
                          a.        The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
                                    applicant’s agent, if any.
                          b.        The name and address of every person or company the applicant
                                    represents.
                          c.        The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request.
                          d.        If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map, the
                                    application shall include:
                                    (1)      An accurate property map showing present and proposed zoning
                                             classifications;
                                    (2)      All abutting properties showing present zoning classifications;
                                             and
                                    (3)      An accurate legal description and an approximate common
                                             address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
                          e.        If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this title, the
                                    application shall include chapter and section references and a draft of the
                                    proposed text.
                   2.     After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator shall
                          prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
                   3.     The planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
                          application as provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter.



HBA Plaza at Draper                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request    5
                             Following the public meeting, the planning commission shall recommend
                             approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the proposed amendment and
                             shall submit its recommendation to the city council for review and decision.
                   4.        The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the application as
                             provided in sections 9-5-040 and 9-5-045 of this chapter. Following the public
                             hearing, the city council may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
                             proposed amendment.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use
Map Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment,
Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text Amendment,
Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment submission. The request complies with
federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                   general plan.
         2.        The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                   development in the vicinity of the subject property.
         3.        There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                   including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                   protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and
                   refuse collection.
         4.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                   ordinance.
         5.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
                   sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.



HBA Plaza at Draper                                                               App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request    6
         6.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                   title or the general plan.
         7.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not
                   to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
                   benefit.
         8.        The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-5-060(D).

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                   general plan.
         2.        The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
                   development in the vicinity of the subject property.
         3.        There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                   including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                   protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and
                   refuse collection.
         4.        The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                   ordinance.
         5.        The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
                   not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
         6.        The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or
                   the general plan.
         7.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to
                   be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
                   benefit.
         8.        The proposed amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-5-060(D).


MODEL MOTIONS

Text Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Text Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home Builders
Association for a text amendment to DCMC Article 9-18L, application TEXTMAP-991-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the HBA Plaza at Draper Text Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The
Home Builders Association for a text amendment to DCMC Article 9-18L, application TEXTMAP-991-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Text Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home Builders
Association for a text amendment to DCMC Article 9-18L, application TEXTMAP-991-2020, based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020.




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                             App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request   7
Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home
Builders Association for a rezone from M1 to CSD-136, application TEXTMAP-992-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020.

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home
Builders Association for a rezone from M1 to CSD-136, application TEXTMAP-992-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020.


Land Use Map Amendment
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home
Builders Association for a land use amendment from Business/Light Manufacturing to Commercial
Special District, application TEXTMAP-993-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated July 13, 2020.

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the HBA Plaza at Draper Land Use Map Amendment, as requested by Ross Ford, representing The Home
Builders Association for a land use amendment from Business/Light Manufacturing to Commercial
Special District, application TEXTMAP-993-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
July 13, 2020.




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                       App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request   8
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.


Brien
                         Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                         DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,
                         ou,                                                                                        Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky


Maxfield                                                                           Jennifer Jastremsky DN:
                         email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us,                                                C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                       O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                         c=US                                                                          Date: 2020.07.13 18:13:40-06'00'
__________________________________
                         Date: 2020.07.15 12:26:35 -06'00'                         __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                                                Draper City Planning Division



                                                                                   Mike   Barker
                             Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                                        Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                                                    DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City
Don Buckley                  DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O="Draper

__________________________________
                             City Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                             Date: 2020.07.14 14:44:32-06'00'
                                                                                                                    Attorney, email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                                   __________________________________
                                                                                                                    Date: 2020.07.14 09:04:46 -06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                        Draper City Legal Counsel


                             Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes
                             DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
 Matthew T. Symes            O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
__________________________________
                             Date: 2020.07.14 06:49:39-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




HBA Plaza at Draper                                                                                             App. # TEXTMAP-991, 992, 993-2020
Text, Zoning Map, and Land Use Map Amendment Request                           9
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed CSD-136 zone contains uses that may be more conducive to an office
               building then the existing M1 zoning designation.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not
               limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
               water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;
               Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve
               this property.
               a. The change from the existing M1 to CSD-136C zone has the potential to increase traffic due
                    to the intensity of uses in existing zone compared to the proposed zone. The benefit to this
                    request is traffic is limited to 13775 South, Pony Express, and 200 West, which lead to
                    Bangerter Highway and Interstate 15, both of which have the greatest vehicle capacity.
                    Residential areas of Draper are not impacted by this zoning request and the increased traffic
                    related to permitted uses in the proposed zone.
               b. Connectivity with this lot to a public right-of-way is to 13775 South, a future minor arterial
                    street. This street could be modified due to development in the adjacent prison site. Existing
                    access locations satisfy the city’s access management plan based on the existing approved
                    site plan. Any future modification to the access locations will be required to meet Draper
                    City Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan. A Traffic Impact Study may
                    be required with a site plan or subdivision application based on the proposed use and
                    projected traffic volume.
               c. There are existing storm drainage facilities onsite in the existing site. This system is
                    designed to accommodate the existing impervious area of the approved site. Increased use
                    of the building will not impact the operation of the system. Any future modifications to the
                    storm drainage system and site layout will be required to be addressed with any subdivision
                    or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development
                    requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.
               d. Sanitary sewer facilities are provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision or
                    site plan application in the future will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District
                    that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.
               e. Drinking water is provided by the city. The city distribution system is designed to
                    accommodate the existing building and the potential increase in the permitted uses in the
                    proposed zone on the site. Increased use of the building will not impact the operation of the
                    system. Any future subdivision or site plan application will require a commitment to serve
                    from the city that will address whether the city’s facilities are adequate to provide service
                    for the any change of uses.

Fire Division Review.
       1.      The Draper City Fire Department has no issues at this time.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
                                          EXHIBIT B
                                      LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Beginning at the intersection point of the Westerly Right-of-Way Line of Interstate 15 and the Northerly
Right-of-Way Line of Pony Express Road (13800 South), said point being South 137.79 feet and West
166.99 feet from the East Quarter Corner of Section 1, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base
and Meridian; and running

        thence Northwesterly 400.27 feet along the arc of a 446.41 foot radius curve to the left (center
bears South 54°31’07” West and the chord bears North 61°09'52” West 387.00 feet with a central angle
of 51 °22’27”) along said North Right-Of-Way Line of Pony Express Road to the easterly boundary line
of Bangerter 15 Condominiums, recorded as Entry No. 10057350 in Book 2007P at Page 156 in the
Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder;
        thence North 296.10 feet along said easterly boundary line of Bangerter 15 Condominiums to the
southerly boundary line of 136 Center Office Plat, recorded as Entry No. 12495731 in Book 2017P at
Page 52 in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder;
        thence South 89°56'19” East 49.35 feet along said southerly boundary line of 136 Center Office
Plat;
        thence continuing South 89°56’19” East 39.28 feet;
        thence South 38.25 feet;
        thence East 252.15 feet to the Westerly Right-of-Way Line of Interstate 15;
        thence South 00°13'38” West 444.41 feet along said Westerly Right-of-Way Line to the point of
beginning.

Contains 111,306 Square Feet or 2.555 Acres
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT F
LEGISLATIVE DRAFT
                         ARTICLE L. 136 CENTER COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT

9-18L-010: PURPOSE:
9-18L-020: PERMITTED USES:
9-18L-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
9-18L-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
9-18L-050: PARKING DESIGN:
9-18L-060: LIGHTING DESIGN:
9-18L-070: SIGNAGE:
9-18L-080: ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
9-18L-090: PROCEDURES:
9-18L-100: EXHIBITS:

9-18L-010: PURPOSE:


The 136 Center Commercial Special District contains approximately 25.54 28.09 acres, located along 200
West and 13800 South as shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit A of this article. The size of the property allows
for a master-planned, mixed-use office park. The Draper City General Plan's goals and objectives are reflected
in the overall district elements such as land use, architectural standards, signage, site design and landscape
standards. The Commercial District of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the City
while providing amenities to the City residents. (Ord. 1361, 10-2-2018)
9-18L-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards of the 136 Center Commercial Special District will guide the design of the
buildings, landscaping, parking and signage located within the district boundaries. The master plan provides for
office and retail development in designated areas in accordance with the development standards set forth in
this article.

A. Commercial District: The Commercial District is located along 200 West and may have retail pads along the
    200 West frontage. All buildings within the Commercial District shall comply with the following development
    standards:

1. Office buildings:

a. Architecture: The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of identity and place
   throughout the business park. All buildings will be articulated with use appropriate scale, form, materials,
   and colors carefully considered and incorporated throughout the development phases. However, different
   architectural styles will be considered and allowed in order to provide variety and identity to this area.

b. Character: All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same materials, colors,
   features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the various building sizes and depths as
   shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit B of this article.

c. Building Materials:

(1) Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel, stone, EFIS, concrete,
   GFRC, tile, or other similar material as approved by Draper City staff.

d. Materials Required: More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

e. High Efficiency Glazing: Buildings shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) high efficiency glazing.
   Structural building elements, such as elevator shafts or stairwells, are excepted from this requirement.

f. Primary Material: Buildings shall use a minimum of fifty percent (50%) primary material.
g. Entry Features: Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include:

(1) An arch or canopy over entry doors.

(2) Colors or materials that highlight the entry.

(3) Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond or are recessed behind the main footprint of the building.

h. Building Height: No building shall be taller than four hundred twenty two feet (422') or approximately thirty
   (30) floors, not including the mechanical penthouse.

i. Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure, parapet
   wall, or line of sight.

j. Dumpsters: Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU or honed CMU
   enclosure.

k. Front Setback: The minimum front setback from right-of-way shall be ten feet (10').

9-18L-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:

Landscape design will be a major component of the 136 Center commercial special district. The overall project
will be landscaped with sensitivity to its environment. A consistent palette of drought tolerant tree types, plant
materials, and ground covers will be incorporated throughout in relation to the architecture to create a strong
and consistent sense of place and identity. The tree and plant palette will be submitted in conjunction with
specific site plan approval application for each phase. The landscape design shall comply with the following
standards:

A. The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into the campus.


B. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate outdoor spaces for public
    amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances as shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit F of this
    article.


C. The landscape buffer around the park shall be provided to obscure parking fields from street view.


D. A landscaping buffer of ten feet (10') of vegetation along 200 West will provide a vegetative shield of the
    parking area.


E. The main corridor that goes east to west through the project shall be lined with trees on both sides. Forty
    foot (40') maximum tree spaces shall be required for this corridor.


F. Tree palette shall be a combination of deciduous and nondeciduous trees and shade and ornamental trees.


G. The initial tree size shall have a minimum two-inch (2") caliper and be a minimum of six feet (6') high.


H. The minimum landscape percentage for the park shall be twenty percent (20%) inclusive of all phases.
I. Landscaping berms measuring three feet (3') in height will be used around the perimeter of the project to
    help minimize the visual impact of the parking field. The landscape berm shall not be required on the
    eastern boundary of the zone that abuts Interstate 15 right-of-way from Bangerter Highway to 13800 South.

9-18L-070: SIGNAGE:

Signage design and location will be an important component of the 136 Center commercial special district. All
signs shall be reviewed and approved by the 136 Center commercial special district architectural review
committee. Allowed signage shall include:

A. One monument sign will be allowed per building. Each monument sign shall have a uniform, architecturally
    compatible design consistent with the 136 Center commercial special district design theme with faces not
    larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Locations must be approved by the city to ensure clearance of
    sight distance requirements at entries and adequate separation for readability. Monument signs shall not
    exceed seven feet (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width. Please see section 9-18L-100, exhibit H of
    this article.


B. In addition to monument signs allowed per building, two (2) monument signs shall be allowed to the
    business park fronting 200 West and one monument sign along 13800 South. They will follow the same
    monument guidelines as stated above.


C. Wall signage may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding and in-line single-/multi-
   tenant buildings. Such signs shall have individually illuminated letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where
   sign cabinets are utilized, they shall be built into the architectural fascia.


D. Wall signage shall be allowed at two (2) square feet of wall signage for every one linear foot of building
   length.


E. Wayfinding signs will be allowed in the project. Height shall not exceed eight feet (8'). The area of the sign
   shall not exceed one hundred feet (100').


F. Suspended or blade type projecting signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a
    minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement.


G. Flags shall be allowed along the main corridor for up to one week per business as permitted through Draper
   City. Banners shall be allowed subject to existing Draper code.


H. One Two pole signs shall be permitted on the I-15 frontage. This These signs may be a multi-tenant sign,
   shall be designed to be architecturally compatible with the office park design theme and shall be no taller
   than thirty five feet (35') and no wider than twenty five feet (25').


I. The pole signs may have LED lighting subject to subsection 9-26-090D of this title. (Ord. 1220, 8-2-2016)

9-18L-100: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A
PROPERTY AND SITE PLAN




(Ord. 1361, 10-2-2018)
EXHIBIT B
EXAMPLE OFFICE BUILDINGS
EXHIBIT H
SIGNAGE
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
Home Builders Association of Utah
 38 W 13775 S • Draper, Utah 84020 • Phone 801·352·8266 • Fax 801 ·352·8277




April 17, 2020



Draper Planning Commission and City Council
1020 Pioneer Rd.
Draper, UT 84020

Dear Members of the Draper City Planning Commission and City Council,

As the owner of the new HBA Plaza at Draper office building located at 38 W. 13775 South, we
are excited that the building is nearing completion, and is being made ready for tenants to
occupy. You may recall that the building was originally started by a different company, and that
work was stopped partway through the construction. The unfinished building sat incomplete for
a few years. The site now is landscaped and looks visually appealing, and is an asset to the
Draper community. We appreciate Draper City working with us to complete the project.

One of the prospective tenants interested in space in the building is a medical user. As we
discussed this possibility with Jennifer Jastremsky, the Draper Zoning Administrator, we found
that the current zoning does not include medical uses as a permitted use. The original developer
was a developer and contractor of multifamily residential homes, and intended to build the
existing office building on the south portion of the lot, with a warehouse to house their
construction equipment, etc. on the northern portion of the lot. Because of this, the original
zoning for the site was M1, which is light manufacturing. M1 does not permit medical uses by
right or by conditional use or variance.

The northern portion of the property where the warehouse was planned was subsequently sold to
the property owner to the north, and is now included in the office development of the 136 Center
Commercial Special District to the north of the HBA Plaza at Draper building.

Jennifer Jastremsky suggested pursuing one of the following options to allow the medical use in
the HBA office building:

   1) Apply for a rezone to an existing commercial use, such as CG or CO1.
   2) Apply for a text amendment to make a medical use a permitted use in a Light
      Manufacturing zone.
   3) Apply for a rezone to match the existing 136 Center Commercial Special District to the
      north of the HBA Plaza at Draper office building property.

As we looked at the development standards for CG or CO1, the permitted height is less than the
building that has already been built. While the building would be considered a legal non-
conforming use if the site were to be rezoned to CG or CO1, we did not feel it was wise to
Home Builders Association of Utah
 38 W 13775 S • Draper, Utah 84020 • Phone 801·352·8266 • Fax 801 ·352·8277

rezone to a zoning designation in which the building would be in a legal non-conforming
condition. Because of this, we chose not to apply for Option 1.

Our thought was that it wouldn’t be common to have medical uses in the light manufacturing
zone, and that it wouldn’t serve Draper City’s best interest to pursue a text amendment that
would make medical uses permitted in all light manufacturing zones within the city. Because of
this, we decided not to apply for Option 2.

The building and landscaping standards of the existing 136 Center Commercial Special District
to the north are similar to what has been built at the HBA Plaza at Draper Property. The land
that would have included the original developer’s warehouse is now a part of that zone, so the
need for the light manufacturing zone on the property has been eliminated. The 2.55 acres of the
HBA Plaza at Draper property is adjacent to the 136 Center Commercial Special District, and
would be a logical candidate to become contiguous with that zone. Because of this we chose to
pursue a re-zone of the HBA Plaza at Draper property to the 136 Center Commercial Special
District.

We have coordinated the items that would need to be changed with the Zoning, General &
Master Plan Maps, and Ordinance Text for the HBA Plaza at Draper to be rezoned to the 136
Center Commercial Special District Zone, and respectfully ask for your approval to grant the re-
zone to accommodate the prospective medical tenant.

Best Regards,

Ross Ford
Executive Vice-President
Homebuilders, LLC – Owner of HBA Plaza at Draper Office Building
