                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                             October 5, 2019

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: October 24, 2019

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Quick Quack – Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request
          Application No.:   SPR-708-2019 and USE-776-2019
          Applicant:         Joseph Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc.
          Project Location:  154 East 13800 South
          Current Zoning:    CC (Community Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:           0.87 Acres (Approximately 38,011 ft2)
          Request:           Request for approval of a site plan and conditional use permit in the CC
                             (Community Commercial) zone regarding a new car wash.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan and conditional use permit for approximately 0.87
acres located on the south side of 13800 South, at approximately 154 East 13800 South. The property is
currently zoned CC (Community Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a site plan and conditional
use permit be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a car wash.

The property is part of the Bangerter 13800 South Commercial Subdivision.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Regional Commercial land
use designation for the subject property. The 2004 General Plan does not include the Regional
Commercial land use designation. It calls for the CR (Regional Commercial) and CC zoning
classifications to be a part of the Community Commercial land use designation. This category “permits
the full scope of commercial land uses that are destination-oriented.”

The property has been assigned the CC zoning classification. The purpose of the CC zone is to “provide
areas where commercial uses may be established which are generally oriented toward local residents
rather than out of town patrons.”

The CC zoning designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Community Commercial land use designation. The property abuts the CC zone on the east, west, and




Quick Quack                                                                   App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                             1
south sides, and the CR zone on the north.

Conditional Use Permit. The applicant has proposed a car wash on the subject property, which requires a
conditional use permit. The definition for a car wash has been placed below for reference. The
surrounding area is commercial in nature, and includes office, banks, retail, restaurant, and vehicle repair
limited type uses. There are a couple homes nearby on Sprague Ln and Anderson Farm Cv. Typically a
car wash produces a large volume of traffic. The Draper Engineering Division has reviewed the request
and found that the minor arterial 13800 South and the arterial Bangerter Parkway have enough capacity to
handle the expected traffic, coupled with the applicant seeking a parking deviation to increase the number
of allowed parking spots on site to ensure adequate parking.

          9-3-040: Definitions:
          CAR WASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor vehicles,
          including cars, passenger trucks, recreational vehicles, whether self-service, automatic or by
          hand. This definition applies only to car washes that are the primary use of land. A single bay car
          wash associated with a gasoline service station is not included in this definition.

Site Plan Layout. The property contains shared ingress and egress points with the other two lots within
the Bangerter 13800 South Commercial Subdivision. There is one access point onto 13800 South, and one
to Bangerter Parkway. The site will feature a single building with three stacking lanes leading to one
interior car wash lane. There will be parking spaces and vacuum stalls along the east and south sides of
the building, adjacent to the shared access way.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The property contains a total of 8,577 square feet of landscaping,
equaling 22.6% of the overall property. The Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) requires a minimum of
20% overall landscaping for properties within the CC zone. The building has a footprint area of 4,011
square feet, which equals 10.6% of the overall property. The DCMC allows a maximum lot coverage for
buildings of 50%. The site will be heavily landscaped along the adjacent street frontages of 13800 South
and Anderson Farm Cv., including ten trees. The remaining landscaping will be located around the
building and parking areas.

Parking. According to DCMC Table 9-25-1 a car wash is required to have five spaces, plus additional
stacking spaces per bay. With the unique design of three merging stacking lanes, staff has counted each
lane is if it were a bay. This means the car wash is required to have 23 parking spaces, or a min/max range
of 17-29 spaces. Note that this application pre-dates the recent changes to the min/max range and the site
is vested under the previous 25% min/max parking range. The applicant has provided two general parking
spaces, 13 vacuum stalls, and 23 stacking spaces for a total of 38 parking spaces.

Parking Modification. Chapter 25 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning Commission to
authorize a deviation to the strict compliance with the terms of the Code regarding the calculation of the
minimum number of required parking spaces. DCMC Section 9-25-090 states that the number of parking
spaces may be modified to provide flexibility beyond natural adjustments in order to adapt to specific
circumstances, reduce potential environmental impacts, and conserve resources. The deviation to strict
compliance is justified based upon a parking study submitted by the applicant. In order to approve a
deviation to strict compliance with the parking requirements of the Draper City Municipal Code, the
Planning Commission must make findings based on the type of use under application. For the subject
application, DCMC Section 9-25-090(c) (4) states:

         a. For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the planning commission must find
            that:
               (1) Adequate parking will be provided;



Quick Quack                                                                      App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                              2
                (2) The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual
                   establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the
                   application;
                (3) Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will not
                   overburden the parking provided;
                (4) There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
                   associated uses;
                (5) Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the parking
                   calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of
                   this chapter;
                (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide adequate
                   transportation to offset any reduction in parking; and
                (7) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will
                   provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;
                (8) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment;

The applicant has submitted a parking study. The applicant has stated “the additional parking will be
adequate to handle current and future car wash demand while ensuring the on-site vehicles will not cause
city or state road back-ups.” According to the parking study, per ITE (Institute of Transportation
Engineers) trip generation handbook, a car wash can expect 78 PM peak trip and 41 Saturday peak trips.
When looking at three existing Quick Quack locations, the study found that 40.2% of the site traffic exits
the site directly after obtaining a car wash and does not utilize the vacuum bays. The car wash has a
service rate of 2 vehicles per minute, and can service up to 120 vehicles per hour, exceeding the expected
volume. The extra stacking spaces for the bay would ensure adequate space for excepted demand. The
average vacuum station time was found to be 8:21 minutes at the three sites analyzed. The 13 vacuum
stalls should provide the needed area to meet this demand.

Architecture. Quick Quack car wash has a specific corporate look utilizing yellow and green building
accents and entryways. The building will feature CMU block, hardi reveal panels, stucco, and metal
fascia. The building will be 29’4” tall. The CC zone allows buildings up to 45-feet tall. A car wash is a
little unique of a building design, in that it does not have a pedestrian area. The main building is the
internal car wash, with equipment rooms, and an employee area. The building meets the roofline and
building entry design standards for the car wash.

Lighting. The site will feature three types of lighting, poles lights, bollards, and building mounted lights.
The site is allowed three light poles up to 20-feet tall. The applicant has proposed three poles at 18-feet
tall. The remainder of the site will be lighted by the 6-foot bollards and building mounted lights.
Photometric plans have been provided for both during operating hours and after hours and both plans
comply with City Code.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a site plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(e) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

Site Plan:
               E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
                1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                   approved.
                2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title. In addition,
                   consideration shall be given to the following:
                  a. Considerations relating to traffic safety and traffic congestion:



Quick Quack                                                                      App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                              3
                        (1) Effect of the site development plan on traffic conditions on abutting streets and
                           neighboring land uses, both as existing and as planned;
                        (2) Layout of the site with respect to location and dimensions of vehicular and
                           pedestrian entrances, exits, driveways, and walkways;
                        (3) Arrangement and adequacy of off street parking facilities to prevent traffic
                           congestion and compliance with the provisions of city ordinances regarding the
                           same;
                        (4) Location, arrangement, and dimensions of truck loading and unloading facilities;
                        (5) Vehicular and pedestrian circulation patterns within the boundaries of the
                           development;
                        (6) Surfacing and lighting of off street parking facilities; and
                        (7) Provision for transportation modes other than personal motor vehicles, including
                           such alternative modes as pedestrian, bicycle, and mass transit.
                    b. Considerations relating to outdoor advertising:
                        (1) Compliance with the provisions of chapter 26 of this title. Sign permit applications
                           shall be reviewed and permits issued as a separate process. Action may be taken
                           simultaneously with or following site plan review.
                    c. Considerations relating to landscaping:
                        (1) Location, height, and materials of walls, fences, hedges, and screen plantings to
                           provide for harmony with adjacent development, or to conceal storage areas, utility
                           installations, or other unsightly development;
                        (2) Planting of ground cover or other surfaces to prevent dust and erosion;
                        (3) Unnecessary destruction of existing healthy trees; and
                        (4) Compliance with the Draper City general plan guidelines to promote consistent
                           forms of development within the districts of the city as identified in the general
                           plan.
                    d. Considerations relating to buildings and site layout:
                        (1) The general silhouette and mass, including location on the site and elevations, in
                           relationship to the character of the district or neighborhood and the applicable
                           provisions of the general plan; and
                        (2) Exterior design in relation to adjoining structures in height, bulk, and area
                           openings, breaks in facade facing on the street, line and pitch of roofs, the
                           arrangement of structures on the parcel, and appropriate use of materials and colors
                           to promote the objectives of the general plan relating to the character of the district
                           or neighborhood.
                    e. Considerations relating to drainage and irrigation:
                        (1) The effect of the site development plan on the adequacy of the storm and surface
                           water drainage; and
                        (2) The need for piping of irrigation ditches bordering or within the site.
                    f. Other considerations including, but not limited to:
                        (1) Buffering;
                        (2) Lighting;
                        (3) Placement of trash containers and disposal facilities; and
                        (4) Location of surface, wall and roof mounted equipment.
                3. In order to assure that the development will be constructed to completion in an acceptable
                   manner, the applicant shall enter into an agreement and provide a satisfactory letter of
                   credit or escrow deposit. The agreement and letter of credit or escrow deposit shall assure
                   timely construction and installation of improvements required by a site plan approval.
                4. In a planned center, individual uses shall be subject to the following requirements:




Quick Quack                                                                         App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                                4
                    a. The overall planned center shall have been approved as a conditional use, which shall
                       include an overall site plan, development guidelines and a list of allowable uses in the
                       center.
                    b. The city and the developer of the planned center shall enter into a development
                       agreement governing development of the center. The agreement shall include a
                       provision to the effect that staff review and approval of uses and the site plan is
                       typically sufficient.
                    c. Development guidelines for a center shall, as a minimum, address the following topics:
                       (1) General site engineering (e.g., storm drainage, provision of utilities, erosion
                          control, etc.);
                       (2) Architectural guidelines, including building setbacks, height, massing and scale,
                          site coverage by buildings, materials, and colors;
                       (3) Landscaping and open space standards;
                       (4) Signage;
                       (5) Exterior lighting;
                       (6) Parking, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, and access to the site;
                       (7) Rights of access within the center (use of cross easements, etc.);
                       (8) Development phasing and improvements/amenities to be completed with each
                          phase;
                       (9) Outdoor sales, storage and equipment;
                       (10) Fencing and walls; and
                       (11) Maintenance standards and responsibilities.

Conditional Use Permit:
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in Section 9-5-
080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                   the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;




Quick Quack                                                                       App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                               5
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                  drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                  protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                  noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                  the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed to
              determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the site plan
and conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the site plan and conditional use permit submission. Comments
from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the site plan
and conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the Draper
City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the geotechnical report submitted
as a part of the site plan and conditional use permit. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the site plan and
conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                    and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                    construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                    of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
          3.        Provide an updated Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement as outlined in Exhibit A
                    of this report prior to obtaining a Land Disturbance Permit.




Quick Quack                                                                      App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                              6
          4.        Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
                    construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
                    required prior to Building Permit issuance.
          5.        Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
                    the Engineering Division.
          6.        Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a building permit within one year of
                    approval of any site plan shall terminate and cancel the prior site plan approval given. A
                    written request may be submitted to the community development department prior to
                    expiration of the site plan for an extension of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of
                    the planning commission, provided substantial action is shown toward obtaining a building
                    permit and the requirements for extension under DCMC section 9-5-030 are met.
          7.        Per DCMC Section 9-5-080(J) unless there is substantial action under a conditional use
                    permit within a maximum period of one year from the date of its issuance, said permit shall
                    expire and shall have no further force or effect. A written request may be submitted to the
                    Community Development Department prior to expiration of the site plan for an extension
                    of up to six (6) months, subject to approval of the Planning Commission, provided
                    substantial action is shown toward obtaining a building permit and the requirements for
                    extension under DCMC Section 9-5-030 are met.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
                    General Plan.
          2.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper
                    City Municipal Code.
          3.        The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development
                    of the area.
          4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
          5.        The parking deviation is reasonable given the parameters of the parking study, per
                    DCMC Section 9-25-090(c)(4).
          6.        Reasonable mitigation measures have been placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                    Draper City General Plan.
          2.        The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the
                    Draper City Municipal Code.
          3.        The proposed development does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical
                    development of the area.
          4.        The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.
          5.        The parking deviation is not reasonable given the parameters of the parking study, per
                    DCMC Section 9-25-090(c)(4).
          6.        Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects.




Quick Quack                                                                        App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                                7
MODEL MOTIONS

Conditional Use Permit:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit, as requested by Joseph
Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application USE-776-20019, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the conditional use permit, as requested
by Joseph Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application USE-776-20019,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the conditional use permit, as requested by Joseph
Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application USE-776-20019, based on the
findings listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019.


Parking Deviation:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the parking deviation, as requested Joseph
Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the parking deviation, requested Joseph
Earnest, representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the parking deviation, as requested Joseph Earnest,
representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the findings
listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019.


Site Plan:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested Joseph Earnest,
representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the site plan, requested Joseph Earnest,
representing Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated October 15, 2019 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested Joseph Earnest, representing
Lone Star Builders Inc. for a car wash, application SPR-708-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated October 15, 2019.



Quick Quack                                                                    App. # SPR-708-2019, USE-776-2019
Site Plan and CUP Request                            8
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The site plan complies with the requirements found within DCMC Title 9.
       2.      The conditional use permit request is reasonable given the commercial nature of the
               surrounding area.
       3.      The parking study appears to be reasonable given the expected volume of traffic the car
               wash may generate.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement – Exhibit A: County requires full boundary
               description in order to record, lot number and subdivision name has been rejected by the
               County. Please update and submit full original copy to Engineering Dept.
       2.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
               construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
               required prior to Building Permit issuance.
       3.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
               the Engineering Division.
       4.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other utilities
               for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The number of trips generated
               by potential customers will not have a detrimental impact to the area due to the nature of the
               commercial area and the potential amount of available parking stalls that could be constructed
               onsite. The site access is through 13800 South, a minor arterial at this location, connecting to
               Bangerter Hwy, an arterial road with high traffic volume capacity with access to Interstate 15
               interchange at Bangerter Hwy;
       5.      Parking would be available onsite and through the site plan approval would ensure adequate
               parking; and
       6.      Demand on public storm drainage system would be per the city’s municipal code as part of the
               site plan approval process. Capacity within the system would accommodate the site storm runoff
               discharge.
       7.      Onsite water service will be provided through WaterPro, and will be reviewed through the site
               plan approval process.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
       EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
        EXHIBIT H
PARKING DEVIATION REQUEST
