                      REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA

Notice is hereby given that the Draper Redevelopment Agency will hold a Business Meeting on
Tuesday, November 10, 2020, at 7:00 PM, in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer
Road, Draper, Utah..

The Agenda will be as follows:
7:00 p.m. BUSINESS MEETING
1.        Call to Order
          a.    Electronic meeting notice
                This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal
                Code 2-1-040.
                Determination 2020-23, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).

                I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting
                of the Draper City Redevelopment Agency with an anchor location presents a
                substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the
                anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Redevelopment Agency to
                conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

                The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
                •          Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and
                City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the
                COVID-19 virus.
                •          Under Governor Herbert’s COVID-19 Transmission Index, Salt Lake
                and Utah Counties are classified as “high” level meaning both counties meets
                “high” level criteria in at least two of the three following criteria: 7-day average
                positivity rate, 14-day case rate per 100,000 people, and statewide ICU
                utilization.
                •          It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at
                any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
                with COVID-19 Transmission Index guidelines and Salt Lake and Utah County
                Public Health Orders.
                •          COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health,
                safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
                •          The City has the technological capability to provide means by which
                the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
                participate in public hearings.

                To participate, listen through the Draper City Website
                  - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes

2.          Motion: Approval of June 16, 2020, Redevelopment Agency Minutes
3.          Action Item: Resolution #RDA 20-04
            Approval of 2020 annual report. Staff report by Bob Wylie
4.          Adjourn to a City Council Meeting
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper
City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us, the Utah Public Notice
website at www.utah.gov/pmn, and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: November 6, 2020
                                                    Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                                                    Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or
services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or
laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
