                                           Development Review Committee
                                                 1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                   Draper, UT 84020
                                          (801) 576-6539 Fax (801) 576-6526

                                                  STAFF REPORT
                                                   February 8, 2019

To:      Planning Commission
         Hearing Date: February 21, 2019

From: Development Review Committee
      Prepared by Dennis Workman, Planner II

Re:       Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan
          Application No.: SP-277-2018
          Applicant:        Jim Poloncic
          Project Location: 700 W. 11450 S.
          Zoning:           RM1 (Residential Multi-family) and CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
          Acreage:          4.79 acres
          Request:          Site plan approval for 30 residential townhome units and a 16,000 square foot
                            office building.


SUMMARY
This application is a request for site plan approval for a mixed-use project on the 4.79 acre property
directly west of Sport City. The development will consist of 30 townhome units (nine duplexes and four
triplexes) and a 16,000 square foot office building. Earlier this year, the applicant applied for a change to
the land use and zoning classifications for the office building portion of the property. Those changes
were granted by the City Council on May 22, 2018. The applicant has yet to decide if he will plat the
project and sell the units or keep it all under single ownership.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The general plan identifies the multi-family portion of the site as Residential
Medium-High Density, and the office portion as Neighborhood Commercial. The Residential Medium-
High Density designation supports 4-8 dwelling units per acre. The Neighborhood Commercial
designation is for commercial uses which target local resident and neighborhoods.

The zoning map identifies the multi-family portion as RM1 and the office portion as CN; both zoning
categories are consistent with the land use designations they fall under. RM1 zoning allows up to eight
dwelling units per acre. This 30-unit townhome development on 3.79 acres yields a density of 7.9 units
per acre. The CN zoning allows an office building as a permitted use.

Site Plan. The Windsor Mill Townhomes will be accessed exclusively from Windsor Mill Drive, with a
single point of ingress/egress. The townhome portion of the project will consist of nine duplexes and four
triplexes, for a total of 13 rooftops. Each unit will front onto a 42-foot private right-of-way, consisting of
30 feet of drivable surface with a six-foot sidewalk on each side to aid pedestrian movement and safety.



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                           App. SP-277-2018
                                                          1
The driveway for each unit will exceed 20 feet in length, which is the minimum requirement for a multi-
family development. As shown on Sheet C-100 of the plan set, the shared driveway configuration will
provide ample opportunity for residents and visitors to park off-street. In addition, there will be eight
dedicated visitor parking stalls. The interior of the residential portion of the site contains an existing
wetland area that will remain undisturbed.

To the east of the townhomes there will be a two-story 16,000 square foot office building, which will be
accessed exclusively from 820 West. The building will be located in the northeast corner of the site with
parking stalls to the west and south. Due to the slope of the land, there will be a nine-foot retaining wall
dividing the townhome and office portions of the development. Staff is recommending that the developer
install a 42” wrought iron guardrail on top of the wall to mitigate the danger of a nine-foot drop-off from
the office parking lot.

Landscaping and Open Space. For commercial projects, the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
requires a minimum 20% landscaping, and for a multi-family project it requires 30% landscaping. The
landscape plan shows that both of these minimums are satisfied. The office portion will provide 29%
landscaping, with 7% of that amount in the parking area as required by code. The townhome portion will
provide 38% landscaping/open space. The planting plan shows ample numbers of trees in a wide variety
on both the commercial and residential sections. Numerous shrubs, ornamental grasses and perennials
will fill in throughout the site, especially near the buildings’ foundations. Some of the landscape beds
will contain four-inch minimum rock mulch over a weed barrier fabric, and others will contain four-inch
minimum shredded bark mulch over a weed barrier fabric. As noted earlier, the wetland area will remain
untouched, but the developer will seed field grasses and wild flowers around the perimeter of the wetland
area for a natural looking transition.

Parking. According to Table 9-25-1 of the DCMC, each multi-family dwelling unit requires two parking
spaces per unit and one visitor parking stall for every four units. An office building requires four parking
stalls for every 1000 square feet of gross floor area. As such, the townhome portion of the project, which
contains 30 units, requires 60 off-street parking stalls and eight visitor parking stalls. This requirement is
more than satisfied, with two garage stalls provided per unit, at least two driveway stalls provided per
unit, and eight visitor parking stalls located throughout the site. For the commercial portion, the 15,814
square foot building requires 63 parking stalls. The site plan shows 63 parking stalls, three of which will
be ADA accessible.

Architecture. The elevation drawings show that the office building and each of the townhome units will
have four-sided architecture consisting of 100% primary materials (excluding windows and doors). The
materials will be fiber cement board and brick, both of which are considered primary. The design of all
buildings shows high visual interest, including numerous variations in the surface plane, distinguished
treatment of windows and doors, and no undisturbed rooflines longer than 50 feet. The height limitation
in both the CN and RM1 zones is 35 feet. The elevation plans show that no building in the development
will exceed that limit, as measured from average finished grade to midpoint of highest roof.

The building design standards for multi-family developments require the townhomes to contain at least
50% brick, stone, or synthetic stone on all sides of the structure, see DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3). The
applicant has requested a deviation to this standard. DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3)(c) allows the
Planning Commission to approve a special exception to allow other materials if there is a predominant
building material that exists in the project vicinity. The applicant has stated the residential neighborhoods
in the vicinity of the development contain a mix of brick and fiber cement and do not contain a majority
of brick or stone. The applicant is proposing a similar mix of brick with fiber cement.

Fencing/Retaining Walls. The subject property slopes from east to west, and therefore requires a number



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                            App. SP-277-2018
                                                      2
of retaining walls throughout the project. Sheet C-101 of the plan set shows the various retaining walls
and their locations. The applicant understands that he must obtain a building permit for each of these
walls. One of the requirements of the landscape code, as set forth in Section 9-23-110(A)(5) of the
DCMC is that “a six-foot high masonry, precast concrete, lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete, or
lightweight steel reinforced polyethylene plastic wall shall be used between abutting commercial,
industrial, or office land uses and residential zones.” The retaining wall that separates the office building
and townhome portions of the project will be nine feet tall on the townhome side of the project. Staff’s
opinion is that this wall satisfies the land use differential requirement, but that a 42” high wrought iron
guardrail needs to be placed atop the wall to mitigate the danger of a nine-foot drop off from the office
parking lot. At the conclusion of this report there is a recommended condition so stating.

Amenities. DCMC Section 9-32-030(F)(1) states that multi-family projects shall include at least one
amenity per 50 units, and then gives a list of eight amenities from which to choose. The applicant has
chosen #7, which is “Natural open space area with benches/viewing areas and/or trails.” Sheet L112 of
the planting plan shows a pedestrian walkway improved with pavers lining the north side of the wetland
area. The walkway will access two cantilevered observation decks that will contain a sitting bench under
a pergola.

Outdoor Lighting. Chapter 9-20 of the DCMC states that “the maximum number of primary light poles
to be implemented on a site shall be limited to a ratio of one pole for not less than 10,000 square feet of
gross site area.” Total area of the site is 208,650 square feet, meaning that this project can have up to 21
light poles. The lighting plan shows 17. The plan needs to be modified to show maximum overall pole
height at 20 feet, including base if any, and maximum illumination at the property lines to be 0.2 foot
candles as required by code. One of the proposed conditions at the end of this report is that notes shall be
added to the lighting plan containing these two restrictions. In addition to the light poles, there will be
wall pack lighting on elevations of all buildings. The wall packs will be shielded and downward directed
to avoid light spillage at the property line.

Geo-technical Review. In reviewing the geo-technical report it was noted that the fill that is currently on
the site may experience settlement of up to 8-inches. Our geo-technical consultant has asked that further
testing be done on that fill and all utility and road improvements be designed to account for any
settlement. The applicant has obtained an addendum letter from their consultant that recommends the
existing fill be removed under roadways and structures. This addendum still needs to be reviewed by our
geo-technical consultant and has been attached for your reference and a condition of approval added to
the report.

Engineering Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works Divisions have completed their
reviews of the site plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Official has reviewed this application and has no
comment at this stage.

Draper City Fire. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the site plan submission.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A

Geotechnical Review. Draper City’s geotechnical consultant have completed their reviews of the
geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the site plan. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Public noticing for site plan has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and
State Codes.



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                          App. SP-277-2018
                                                      3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the conditions and findings listed below and the criteria for approval listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the application, staff recommends they include the
following conditions:

      1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and
          Fire Divisions, as stated elsewhere in this report, are satisfied throughout development of the
          site. Fire Division comments shall be met prior to building permit issuance or building
          occupancy, as outlined in Exhibit A of this report.
      2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of the
          site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
      3. Provide an updated third party review and approval of the updated geotechnical report
          addendum.
      4. Provide updated plans indicating required compliance to the geotechnical addendum
          recommendations on the site and grading plans.
      5. That as a safety measure, the developer installs a 42” wrought iron guardrail atop the nine-foot
          retaining wall separating the office building from the townhomes.
      6. That for maintenance purposes, the city-owned portion of the park strip on the west side of 820
          West is filled in with 4” of concrete.
      7. That approval of the site plan does not constitute approval of any signage. Any and all signage
          shall be required to receive separate sign permit approval.
      8. That the photometric plan is modified to show pole height at a maximum of 20 feet, including
          base if any, that lighting fixtures shall be shielded and downward directed to discourage light
          spillage at the property line, and to show maximum illumination at all property lines to be 0.2
          foot candles.
      9. That the elevations be amended to provide material percentage breakdowns.
      10. That a deviation to DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3) is granted allowing townhome elevations that
          do not comply with the 50% of brick or stone on all sides of the structure, and that the applicant
          is allowed to use fiber cement as it is a predominant building material that already exists in the
          project vicinity.
      11. That after Planning Commission approval, the applicant submits six sets of plans to be stamped
          “Approved for Construction.” Three of these shall be 24x36 in size and three shall be 11x17.
          Each of these sets shall contain all sheets previously submitted for review, and all sheets must be
          stapled together.

Findings for approval are as follows:

     1. That the proposed site plan conforms to the requirements, goals, objectives and policies of the
        City’s General Plan.
     2. That the proposed site plan will not adversely affect adjacent property.
     3. That adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including but not limited
        to roadways, police and fire protection, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste
        water and refuse collection.
     4. That the site plan will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of those persons
        working or residing in the area.
     5. That all site plan drawings were developed in accordance with the standards contained in Draper
        City’s zoning ordinance.




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                           App. SP-277-2018
                                                      4
     6. That fiber cement is a predominant building material that already exists in the project vicinity and
        is an appropriate predominant material for the development.

Findings for denial may be as follows:

     1. That the proposed site plan does not conform to the requirements and objectives of the City’s
        General Plan.
     2. That the proposed site plan will adversely affect adjacent property.
     3. That existing facilities and services are inadequate to support the proposed development.
     4. That the proposed site plan will be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of persons
        working or residing in the area.
     5. That fiber cement is a predominant building material that already exists in single-family
        development in the city, and that the DCMC holds townhome projects to a higher architectural
        standard and the required brick and stone for townhome projects is appropriate for the
        development.


MODEL MOTION

Deviation to Elevations:
To Approve Deviation. “I move that we approve the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building
Deviation to Elevations, as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated February 8, 2019:”

To Approve Deviation with Modifications. “I move that we approve the Windsor Mill Townhomes and
Office Building Deviation to Elevations, as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated February 8, 2019 and as modified by
the following:”

     1. List any additional findings and conditions.

To Deny Deviation. “I move that we deny the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Deviation
to Elevations, as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the following findings:”

      1. List findings.

Site Plan:
To Approve Site Plan. “I move that we approve the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site
Plan, as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the staff report dated February 8, 2019:”

To Approve Site Plan with Modifications. “I move that we approve the Windsor Mill Townhomes and
Office Building Site Plan, as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the staff report dated February 8, 2019 and as modified by the following:”

     1. List any additional findings and conditions.

To Deny Site Plan. “I move that we deny the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan,
as outlined under application SP-277-2018, based on the following findings:”

      2. List findings.



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                          App. SP-277-2018
                                                       5
                                               EXHIBIT A
                                          DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Geotechnical Review
Pavement recommendations provided in the geotechnical report are for private drives and associated
parking lots. The roads within the development will be private. However, it should be noted that up to 8
inches of settlement could occur on the site due to existing fill. If the undocumented fill is not removed,
underground utilities should be constructed with the allowance of anticipated settlement so that impact to
utilities are prevented. If public right-of-way improvements are planned, the pavement sections for public
right-of-way should follow the Draper City Engineering Standards for pavement construction based upon
street classification and a CBR of less than 3 and the existing should be removed and replaced with
structural fill up to required grade. TG recommends a CBR test, Atterberg limits and gradation be
performed on the subgrade soils if a higher CBR is desired for pavement design.

Fire Division Review Comments
1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26) feet
    exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required.
    The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
    surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning
    radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked
    prior to building permits being issued.

2. D107.1 One- or two-family dwelling residential developments. Developments of one- or two-family
     dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 30 shall be provided with two separate and
     approved fire apparatus access roads, and shall meet the requirements of Section D104.3.

          Exceptions:
                    1.       Where there are more than 30 dwelling units on a single public or private fire
                    apparatus access road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an approved
                    automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3
                    of the International Fire Code, access from two directions shall not be required.

                    2.      The number of dwelling units on a single fire apparatus access road shall not be
                    increased unless fire apparatus access roads will connect with future development, as
                    determined by the fire code official.

     3. D104.3 Remoteness. Where two fire apparatus access roads are required, they shall be placed a
     distance apart equal to not less than one half of the length of the maximum overall diagonal
     dimension of the lot or area to be served, measured in a straight line between accesses. These plans do
     not meet this requirement.

     4. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
     Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the
     issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
     temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                           App. SP-277-2018
                                                        7
     5. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
     purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
     delivered on building site.

     6. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
     purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
     delivered on building site.

     7. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
     plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
     their background.

     8. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being issued. All
     lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.

Engineering Division Review Comments
1. Provide an updated third party review of the updated geotechnical report addendum.

 2. Provide updated plans indicating required compliance to the geotechnical addendum
    recommendations on site and grading plans.




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                          App. SP-277-2018
                                                      8
                                           EXHIBIT B
                                          AERIAL MAP




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                   App. SP-277-2018
                                              9
                                            EXHIBIT C
                                          LAND USE MAP




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                     App. SP-277-2018
                                               10
                                           EXHIBIT D
                                          ZONING MAP




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                   App. SP-277-2018
                                              11
                                          EXHIBIT E
                                          SITE PLAN




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                  App. SP-277-2018
                                             12
                                             EXHIBIT F
                                          LANDSCAPE PLAN




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                       App. SP-277-2018
                                                13
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          14
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          15
                                           EXHIBIT G
                                          ELEVATIONS




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                   App. SP-277-2018
                                              16
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          17
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          18
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          19
                                              EXHIBIT H
                                          DEVIATION REQUEST

From: James Poloncic <jpoloncic@thinkaec.com>
Sent: Tuesday, February 12, 2019 6:15 AM
To: Dennis Workman <Dennis@draper.ut.us>
Subject: RE: Windsor Mill - Retain Wall-Guardrail exhibit

Dennis

We are close to 50% per side but, most likely 50% for the overall structure as allowed by Title 9,
chapter 32, item 9-32-030, B Design, 3a1. Our main concern is using to much brick that the
visual mass of the material will create a “heavy” aesthetic. There is a lot of undulation in the
facades. We felt that a dominating material, such as brick, would detract hence, losing the
desired look. So, with a mixture of Fiber Cement textures (board-batten siding and lap siding)
and brick, we feel that you will see a more harmonizing collective.

The homes in the development to the south have a wide range of materials without the use of one
overriding finish such as brick. We were hoping to follow a similar guideline as allowed by item
9-32-030, B Design 3c.

I have attached rendered elevations of the duplex and a perspective of the triplex for review in
this matter. Also, I enclosed photos of the homes to the south as a comparison.


Sincerely

Jim Poloncic
THINKarcitecture




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                                                  App. SP-277-2018
                                                 20
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          21
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          22
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          23
                                                EXHIBIT I
                                          RETAINING WALL PLAN




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                            App. SP-277-2018
                                                  24
                                            EXHIBIT J
                                 GEO-TECHNICAL ADDENDUM LETTER




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                                             App. SP-277-2018
                                              25
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Bldg.
Commercial Site Plan                           App. SP-277-2018
                                          26
