Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Travis VanEkelenburg
CC:  Date: April 21, 2020
Re: Ordinance #1435 Restaurant Sign Text Amendment Request Comments: Applicant Justin Grubb with YESCO Sign Company is requesting a Text Amendment change to the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-26-070 to accommodate more modern upgrades for restaurant drive-through menu boards so they can be digitally operated and controlled throughout the city.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their April 2, 2020 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation with a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with other sections or parts of this title or the general plan.
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1435 4/17/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 4/15/2020 Cover Memo