                                          Development Review Committee
                                              1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                Draper, UT 84020
                                                   June 2, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: June 11, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us


Re:       Quality Diamond Tools – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
          Application No.:  USE-937-2020
          Applicant:        Jim and Lois Duncan
          Project Location: 12138 South 800 East
          Current Zoning:   RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone
          Acreage:          0.94 Acres (Approximately 40,946 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for a
                            home based office and assembly and repair, limited use located within two
                            detached accessory structures, with employees who do not reside in the
                            residence, storage, and business vehicles.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.94 acres located at approximately 12138 South 800 East (Exhibit B). The property is
currently zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum). The applicants,
business partners who are also husband and wife, are requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit be approved to allow for the home based business on the property.

The property includes two separate parcels, which pre-date the incorporation of the City in 1978. There is
a single-family home on the front parcel built in 1978, and two detached accessory structures on the rear
parcel built in 1982 and 1987. Both properties have been historically considered one property and used in
conjunction with each other. The applicants obtained building permits to add a bathroom into one of the
detached structures and re-roof it in 2019.

Quality Diamond Tools is an existing business within the City and has been located at 447 East 11800
South (Kimballs Lane). Based on City records, a business license was issued for the home based office,
but no Conditional Use Permit was ever issued for the employees, delivery traffic, or storage. The
applicants have indicated that a storage unit at an off-site location was utilized for much of the storage
while at the old business location. The applicants are looking to relocate the business to the subject
property.




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                       App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the
purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals
and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.” The majority of the property is adjacent
to the RA2 zone; however, there is some CN (Neighborhood Commercial) located on the southwest
corner of the property.

Home Occupation Request. The purpose of the home occupations regulations can be found in DCMC
Section 9-34-010. The intent is to allow for limited business activities in residential areas without
disturbing the residential character of the neighborhood.

          DCMC Section 9-34-010



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                     App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      2
          The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for home
          occupations. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited business activities allowed in a
          residential zone do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.

The applicants are proposing a home “office” and “assembly and repair, limited” use for the sale of drill
tools for the geo-tech and mineral exploration market. The home office use is permitted pursuant to
DCMC Section 9-34-030 and the assembly and repair, limited use is a conditional use pursuant to the
recently amended DCMC Section 9-34-050. The business is proposed to be located within several
buildings on the property, including a home office, and two detached structures within the rear yard. The
business will have two employees who do not reside in the home, in addition to the two business owners.
Hours of operation are 8:00am to 6:00pm, Monday through Friday. The business serves as a call center
taking orders for drill tools. The company also purchases parts for resale, including delivery, repackaging,
and shipping. The applicant does have a wood saw and uses that to fabricate small pieces of wood to
place in the packaging boxes to prevent shifting of the merchandise during shipping. This business falls
under two use categories, Assembly and Repair, Limited and Office, General. The definitions for these use
categories are as follows:

          DCMC 9-3-040: Definitions:
          ASSEMBLY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
          assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer assembly
          or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items. Assembly,
          fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are produced one at a
          time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not include mass production of
          goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small enough to be carried by one
          individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The business shall not create noise, odor,
          vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of the home. Anything that uses a material, a
          mixture of materials, or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or
          building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.

          OFFICE, GENERAL: A building, room or department where executive, management,
          administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services, and excluding the
          sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use. Typical uses include real estate
          brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting agencies, property management firms, investment
          firms, employment agencies, travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data
          processing, telephone answering, paging and beeper services and facsimile transmission
          services; post offices and express mail offices as an accessory or complementary use to a
          professional and business office development, but excluding major mail processing and
          distribution; offices for utility bill collection; professional or consulting services in the fields of
          law, architecture, design, engineering, accounting and similar professions; interior decorating
          consulting services; and business offices of private companies, utility companies, public agencies,
          trade associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.

The definition of assembly and repair, limited, allows for a business that is small scale in nature with the
intent of products being made or packaged to order and small enough to be carried by one individual. The
proposed business is more intense than the uses contemplated with this definition. The following analysis
highlights those areas in which the proposed business does not meet these standards due to the intensity of
the business.

Home Occupation. The applicants are requesting several deviations to the standards for home occupations
as outlined DCMC Section 9-34-040. Such deviations to the standards may be approved by the Planning
Commission pursuant to DCMC Section 9-34-060. The specific deviations requested are to standards C,



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                          App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          3
E, F, G, H, J, K, L, and O. Exhibit F includes the applicant’s stated deviation requests. Staff has provided
an analysis of each request and the home occupation standards below:

          A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
              dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of
              the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. Yes, I Jim Duncan and my wife Lois are the owners of
               the property in question @ 12138 south 800 East. Yes I, Jim Duncan am the Sole Owner and
               President of the Business in question “ Duncan & Duncan Inc. DBA: Quality Diamond Tools.
               My Wife & I moved into basement in Jan 2020. In FEB 2020 we finished the remodel an
               fully moved into the upstairs main living space. I also moved in my Father who had been on
               hospice and needed a little more help with things. He has now left us and is gone. We are
               here at 12138 south 800 East and will be most likely will be for the rest of our lives. We are
               getting old and hope to be able to retire sometime within the next two years.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants, husband and wife, own the property and they have stated that
               they live within the home. Both work for the business.

          B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
              continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. Yes we will get, we have been trying since OCT 2019
               to get a License for this property. Yes we will maintain the HOCUP. Would like to note:
               When I first moved into Draper 13 year ago, I took a business License out with Draper City
               and maintained it. It was Draper that stopped sending me renewal form and fee. I called
               Draper to try to pay the next year, but was told by Draper City they no.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants have applied for a business license and will comply with any
               business license regulations within DCMC Title 6.

          C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed
              in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

               Applicants Deviation Request: I have two employees, one of which is family and both of
               these two employees do not live with us.

               Staff Analysis: The business has two employees who do not reside within the home, plus the
               two applicants.

          D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
              city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
              may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, will do, just let me know what you want me to do.

               Staff Analysis: Inspections will be conducted as needed for the Home Occupation
               Conditional Use Permit, Building Occupancy, and Business License.

          E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
              square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                          App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          4
               Applicants Deviation Request: Since I am just a reseller, I have to look ahead at what will be
               needed for my customers. The manufacturers do not have enough and in some cases compete
               against me. Therefor I have to watch and monitor a revolving inventory to make sure I have it
               and it gets turned at least every 60 days. So I do have a little more than your allotted amount
               but what you saw and took pic’s of is all we would ever have. If I don’t have it I cannot sell
               it. Please note 30-35 percent of the time the product gets shipped direct to my customer from
               the manufacture And we do not have to worry about receiving and reshipping or the floor
               space it may take.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants have stated that 30%-35% of the business is drop-shipped,
               meaning product is shipped directly from the supplier to the buyer. That leaves 65%-70% of
               the product to be shipped to the subject site, repackaged, and shipped to the customer. The
               applicants are proposing to utilize the following structures on site for operation of the
               business:

                Home Square Footage                                                      4,480
                                                                            Sq. Ft.      % of Home Sq. Ft.
                Home Office (within Primary Residence)                      144          3.2%
                Storage Space (within Wood Shop Structure)                  800          17.8%
                Storage Space (within Garage/Shop Structure)                1,480        33.0%
                Office (within Garage/Shop Structure)                       300          6.6%
                Conex Container 1                                           160          3.5%
                Conex Container 2                                           160          3.5%
                Total Business Square Footage                               3,044        67.9%
                Total Storage Sq Ft Storage Compared to 250 Sq Ft           2,600        1,040%
                Allowed

               The two conex containers listed above have recently been added to the rear property and are
               not considered legal nonconforming like the two garage structures. If you recall, the subject
               site includes two separate parcels, one with the house, and one with the two detached
               structures. DCMC Section 9-10-030(B) requires a primary use to be located on a property in
               order to establish an accessory use. A detached garage or storage building, such as a conex
               container, is considered an accessory use. In the RA2 zone, a single-family house is
               considered a primary use. While the two detached garage/shop structures are legally allowed
               to stay, the applicant cannot place additional detached accessory structures on the property
               and comply with current code. The conex containers would increase the degree of non-
               conformity of the property. The amount of proposed storage is excessive, the use of
               additional structures not historically found on the property would also be considered
               excessive. The conex containers should not be allowed for business purposes. A condition of
               approval has been included in this report requiring the conex containers to be removed from
               the property and prohibiting their use for the business.

               The applicants stated that the former location on Kimball’s Lane utilized an off-site storage
               unit at a commercial facility for much of the storage. Staff recommends the applicants
               continue utilizing an offsite commercial storage unit for the majority of the business storage
               needs. Even with the removal of the two conex containers, the applicants are proposing to
               utilize 2,580 square feet of space outside the home. This equals 57.5% of the home square
               footage. The requested amount of storage is excessive for a residential zone. It may be
               reasonable to allow one of the structures to be utilized for the business. There are other home




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                         App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          5
               based businesses within the city that utilize accessory structures. A condition of approval has
               been included which limits business operations to the one 1,780 square foot detached
               garage/shop building, including its 300 square feet of office space and 1,480 square feet of
               storage space. This equals 39.7% of the homes square footage, and 592% of the allowed 250
               square feet of storage space. The wood shop structure would be prohibited for business use
               under the conditions of approval.

          F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
              dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall
              be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
              occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
              occupation.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, This is our home we want it to look like a home, we want
               good relationships & happy neighbors. There will be no more remodeling or updating to the
               home our shop. What you saw while here is all we have had plans to do. The back lot with
               the existing asphalt and the new 2” overlay provides parking for us, employees and delivery
               vans “UPS & FED EX ext. off the street.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants are proposing to utilize an existing garage shop and wood shop
               on the property that equals 2,280 square feet of storage space and 300 square feet of office
               space. The structures are located to the rear of the property. The applicants have a paved
               parking area behind the house for employees and deliveries. The rear of the property is
               accessed from a driveway on the south side of the home. The front yard has not been altered.

          G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
              offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
              interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

               Applicants Deviation Request: We do not have any heavy equipment or noisy equipment, no
               odors, no gases, no smoke, no paint fumes, no vibration, no magnetic Interference. We open
               @ 8 AM Monday-Friday and close @ 5PM / Sometimes UPS is late and I do not get
               everyone out and gone till 6 PM. Everyone gone by 6 PM and shop and gates are all locked
               up.

               Staff Analysis: The business will not create any offensive or noxious emissions of odor,
               smoke, gas, vibration, or magnetic interference. The business does utilize a commercial
               forklift. This may cause noise concerns with neighbors. A condition of approval has been
               included limiting the hours of use for the forklift.

          H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary
              use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the
              normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more
              than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, I understand. Nothing would be different and or used for
               other than what you saw and took pic’s of.

               Staff Analysis: The dwelling unit on the property is 4,480 square feet in size. There is a 144
               square foot office located within the dwelling, equaling 3.2% of the dwellings square footage.
               The remainder of the business activities are located within detached accessory structures,



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                         App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          6
               including office and storage space, equaling 2,900 square feet, or 64.7% of the dwelling units
               square footage. The business will utilize 67.9% of the square footage of the dwelling unit,
               compared to the 25% allowed outright by code.

          I. Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, I understand. If something were to come up, I will
               check with “Draper HOVUP” and this chapter 26.

               Staff Analysis: Per DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1) home occupations are allowed to have
               signage equaling a maximum of 2 square feet in size, with the sign attached to the plane on
               the building. No signage was visible during the May 26, 2020 site inspection. If the
               applicants desire to add signage in the future, it will have to comply with the sign code. A
               condition of approval has been included requiring compliance with DCMC Section 9-26-
               070(B)(1).

          J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
              vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
              located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for
              drop off traffic.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, Sure I understand. We are not a store front. We do not
               advertise nor solicit business. We consult, quote, sell and then buy, put our Sticker and logo
               on and re box and ship and or deliver ourselves. 80 percent of what we sell goes out of Utah.
               The other Is UPS, Fed Ex, US Postal Service or delivered to the customer and or their Job.

               Staff Analysis: The property contains an 85-foot by 95-foot asphalt area in front of the
               accessory buildings that can be utilized for parking and delivery turn around. This would
               allow for 15 parking spaces on site, and an area for any delivery vehicles to turn around. The
               business has two employees which do not live in the home. In addition, the business does get
               deliveries from Fedex, USP, and USPS. A condition of approval has been included that all
               employee parking shall be located on-site. Another condition of approval has been included
               which limits the number of deliveries to six total trips per day. A delivery is one trip. A
               pickup is one trip. A combined delivery/pickup is one trip.

          K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles
              or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally
              be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, please note: that I have a small indoor forklift “usually
               inside a warehouse or shop” runs off propane. We have this to make it quick to get pallet or
               skid off truck. This is easier on our shoulders and back. I have two broken shoulders and
               Doctor has said I will need an full shoulder Reversal replacement here shortly. I, nor
               employees want back problems. We do not have signs no do we plan to have any to put on
               vehicles.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants have stated there are two vehicles used for the business and
               personal use, which are in the businesses name. These vehicles are a Toyota Tacoma and a
               Honda Odyssey. In addition, the business has a single double axel utility trailer and a
               commercial forklift. A condition of approval has been included which prohibits any




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                          App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          7
               additional business vehicles, trailers, or motorized equipment from being located on the
               property and requires all business vehicles to be parked on-site.

          L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
              activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, I understand. That was the reason for getting this
               property which included a shop in the back to keep everything organized and inside, Keeping
               our home and yard clean and well groomed.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants have not stated that any yard area will be used for the business.
               The business will be run out of detached accessory buildings, including an office and storage.
               An office will also be provided within the home.

          M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
             facility shall not be considered customers.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, I understand. We are not a store front no do we
               solicit or ask customers to come.

               Staff Analysis: The applicants do not anticipate customers and have stated the business does
               not have a storefront and does not solicit or ask customers to come to the home.

          N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess
              of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, I understand, We don’t have and will never have
               that kind of a need.

               Staff Analysis: The business will require utility usage for the accessory office and garage
               structure. The applicants have not indicated that utility demand will be greater than typically
               found for accessory structures in residential neighborhoods.

          O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
             primary structure on the property.

               Applicants Deviation Request: OK, I understand. This property has had and existing fence all
               the way around its property. I would never go onto my neighbors, I want a good and trusting
               relationship with all my neighbors. I have a pasture with 2 goats on south property line and a
               big empty lot on my south property line.

               Staff Analysis: The business will include a small home office, and the rest of the business
               activities will be conducted within accessory detached structures, which includes the 300
               square foot office space and the 2,280 square feet of storage space.

          P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
              conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
              subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
              Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
              respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if
              the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                         App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          8
               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, I understand. I have no plans or needs for that.
               Everything will stay same as what you have seen and taken pic’s of.

               Staff Analysis: There is a single-family home on the property.

          Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
              and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
              provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
              26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth
              in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage
              food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
              agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with
              these regulations.

               Applicants Deviation Request: None. OK, I understand. I nor either of our 2 employees have
               a need for any kind of childcare.

               Staff Analysis: The business does not involve childcare or food.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Conditional Use Permit request
is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                   the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                   drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                   protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                   noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                       App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         9
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                  the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed to
              determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

The criteria for review and potential approval of deviations to the Home Occupation standards is found in
Section 9-34-060 of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

          A home occupation listed in section 9-34-030 or 9-34-050 of this chapter that does not conform
          to any of the development standards in section 9-34-040 of this chapter may nonetheless be
          established through the issuance of a conditional use permit specifically for the desired alteration
          to those development standards.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application could comply with the DCMC with conditions of approval to specifically
alter the development standards listed in DCMC Section 9-34-040. Staff recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve or deny the application based on
the findings listed below and the criteria for approval or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                    and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                    construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.        Comply with all the requirements of DCMC 9-34-040, except for alterations to the
                    standards enumerated in that subsection specifically approved by the Planning
                    Commission.



Quality Diamond Tools                                                                        App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request         10
          3.        An office shall be maintained within the home at all times.
          4.        Hours of operation are limited to 8:00am to 6:00pm, Monday through Friday.
          5.        On-site parking shall be provided to all employees. There shall be no employee parking
                    on the public right-of-way.
          6.        Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to two people.
          7.        Customers are prohibited from coming to the home, all product is to be shipped or
                    delivered.
          8.        Delivery and shipment shall be limited to no more than six total trips regardless of the
                    company. A delivery is one trip. A pickup is one trip. A combined delivery/pickup is one
                    trip. This does not include trips by Quality Diamond Tools allowed business vehicles.
          9.        All deliveries and pickups shall be made by delivery vans/trucks equaling 15,000 pounds
                    gross vehicle weight or less. All deliveries shall take place on the property and not in the
                    public right-of-way.
          10.       No vehicles, trailers, or otherwise shall block 800 East to load or unload at any time. All
                    business activities shall take place on the property.
          11.       The two conex trailers shall not be utilized for the business and shall be removed from
                    the property.
          12.       No additional storage containers shall be added to the property for business purposes,
                    including, but not limited to, sheds, garages, shops, or conex containers.
          13.       All business operations are limited to the office in the residential dwelling unit and the
                    one detached structure referred to as the garage/shop building in the attached site plan
                    and as referred to in this report. No additional areas may be utilized for the business per
                    DCMC Section 9-34-040(O), including the shop building.
          14.       The number of business vehicles is capped at two, business utility trailers is capped at
                    one, and motorized equipment, such as the forklift, is capped at one. No additional
                    business vehicles, utility trailer, motorized equipment/forklift, or the like shall be allowed
                    on the property. All business vehicles, utility trailer, and the motorized equipment/forklift
                    shall be parked on the property, and not within the public right-of-way. All vehicles,
                    utility trailer, and motorized equipment/forklift shall conform to DCMC Section 9-25-
                    050(H) and (I).
          15.       A Knox Box shall be required on all gates, subject to the standards and requirements of
                    the International Fire Code and the Draper City Fire Department.
          16.       The forklift shall only be used immediately following a delivery to put product away and
                    shall be limited to a period of operation of one hour after the delivery.
          17.       All signage on the site shall comply with DCMC Section 9-26-070(B)(1), including
                    permitting.
          18.       Per DCMC Section 9-34-040(D) inspections will be conducted as needed for the Home
                    Occupation Conditional Use Permit, Building Occupancy, and Business License.
          19.       Provide an affidavit certifying that the property is the applicant’s primary residence.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures have been placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic, noise, and parking.




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                           App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request           11
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools, application USE-937-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 2, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools, application USE-937-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 2, 2020 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Jim and Lois Duncan for Quality Diamond Tools, application USE-937-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 2, 2020.




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                    App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request       12
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.




__________________________________                       __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                      Draper City Planning Division



__________________________________                       __________________________________
Draper City Fire Department                              Draper City Legal Counsel



__________________________________
Draper City Building Division




Quality Diamond Tools                                                                    App. # USE-937-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      13
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

       1.      Conditions of approval have been placed on the request to reduce the potential negative
               and detrimental effects of the proposed business.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other utilities
               for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The number of trips generated
               by potential employee(s), the owner, and three current employees will not have a detrimental
               impact to the area due to the nature of the residence and the availability of onsite parking in the
               driveway at the residence. The applicant states no customers are expected at the business due to
               the model where they deliver the tools. The subject residence has a separate driveway to the
               accessory structure with adequate off-street parking for the employees. Given the location and
               proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer,
               or other utilities;
       2.      Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking be in the
               driveway of the accessory structure. The fronting public street does not have curb or gutter and
               has a gravel shoulder. Onsite parking is especially important during winter months when there
               may be excessive snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a safety issue;
       3.      Traffic circulation is not anticipated to be negatively impacted. General access to the residence
               is from 700 East and 123300 South along 12100 South and 800 East. Based on the requested
               use, the anticipated increase in traffic is insignificant, including the expected daily receiving and
               picking up of packages and will not impact street functionality in the neighborhood or at
               intersections accessing the residence. Heavy trucks may impact the access along 800 East, but
               due to the low traffic volume are not expected to cause an issue. Trucks shall not block 800 East
               to load or unload; and
       4.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of
               the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
               improvements in the vicinity based on the proposed shipping and delivery component of
               the business, limited number of customers onsite, and the few employees working at the
               site.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
               meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
               location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
               on every level of the home. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
               mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
        2.     Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
               numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
               shall contrast with their background.
        3.     Fire Department Access is required to be maintained. Vehicles cannot park in such a way
               to impede fire department or emergency vehicle access.
4.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
     entrance gates.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
Mezzanine                                               Home
above                                                   Office
            Garage/Shop


                  Shop Office




                                Conex trailers




                                                 Gate
                                                                 Gate
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                             jim qdtools.us <jim@qdtools.us>
Sent:                             Friday, May 29, 2020 8:27 AM
To:                               Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                          RE: Quality Diamond Tools HOCUP- Additional Info Requested


Shop: 40’ x 40’
2nd shop 20’ x 40’
Container 1      8’ x 20’
Container 2      8’ x 20’

Hope this gives you what you needed.
Please let me know
Thank you, Jim

From: Jennifer Jastremsky <jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us>
Sent: Thursday, May 28, 2020 6:31 PM
To: jim qdtools.us <jim@qdtools.us>
Cc: Christina Oliver <Christina.Oliver@draper.ut.us>
Subject: RE: Quality Diamond Tools HOCUP- Additional Info Requested

Jim, can you provide me the square footages of the structures and containers again. I think the info I had down did not
match the size of the storage containers I saw out there. I just want to make sure I have the most accurate info. Thanks-
Jen

From: jim qdtools.us <jim@qdtools.us>
Sent: Wednesday, May 27, 2020 11:28 AM
To: Jennifer Jastremsky <jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us>
Cc: Christina Oliver <Christina.Oliver@draper.ut.us>
Subject: RE: Quality Diamond Tools HOCUP- Additional Info Requested

Draper City Municipal Code / Reply as requested
A. Ownership: Yes, I Jim Duncan and my wife Lois are the owners of the property in question @ 12138 south 800 East.
Yes I, Jim Duncan am the Sole Owner and President of the Business in question “ Duncan & Duncan Inc. DBA: Quality
Diamond Tools.
My Wife & I moved into basement in Jan 2020. In FEB 2020 we finished the remodel and fully moved into the upstairs
main living space.
I also moved in my Father who had been on hospice and needed a little more help with things. He has now left us and is
gone.
We are here at 12138 south 800 East and will be most likely will be for the rest of our lives.
We are getting old and hope to be able to retire sometime with in the next two years.

B. Business License: Yes we will get, we have been trying since OCT 2019 to get a License for this property.
Yes we will maintain the HOCUP.
Would like to note: When I first moved into Draper 13 year ago, I took a business License out with Draper City and
maintained it.
It was Draper that stopped sending me renewal form and fee. I called Draper to try to pay the next year, but was told by
Draper City they no

                                                            1
Longer did that. Nothing was explained, I received no letter and when I called nothing was mentioned about re-
registering.

C. Employees: I have two employees, one of which is family and both of these two employees do not live with us.

D. Inspection: OK, will do, just let me know what you want me to do.

E. Inventory: Since I am just a reseller, I have to look ahead at what will be needed for my customers. The
manufacturers do not have enough
and in some cases compete against me. Therefor I have to watch and monitor a revolving inventory to make sure I have
it and it gets turned
at least every 60 days. So I do have a little more than your allotted amount but what you saw and took pic’s of is all we
would ever have.
If I don’t have it I can not sell it. Please note 30-35 percent of the time the product gets shipped direct to my customer
from the manufacture
And we do not have to worry about receiving and reshipping or the floor space it may take.

F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: OK, This is our home we want it to look like a home, we want good
relationships & happy neighbors.
There will be no more remodeling or updating to the home our shop. What you saw while here is all we have had plans
to do. The back lot with
the existing asphalt and the new 2” overlay provides parking for us, employees and delivery vans “UPS & FED EX ext. off
the street.

G. Nuisance: We do not have any heavy equipment or noisy equipment, no odors, no gases, no smoke, no paint fumes,
no vibration, no magnetic
Interference. We open @ 8 AM Monday-Friday and close @ 5PM / Sometimes UPS is late and I do not get everyone out
and gone till 6 PM.
Everyone gone by 6 PM and shop and gates are all locked up.

H. Secondary Use: OK, I understand. Nothing would be different and or used for other than what you saw and took pic’s
of

I. Signs: OK, I understand. If something were to come up, I will check with “Draper HOVUP” and this chapter 26.

J. Traffic, Parking And Access: OK, Sure I understand. We are not a store front. We do not advertise nor solicit business.
We consult, quote, sell
and then buy, put our Sticker and logo on and re box and ship and or deliver ourselves. 80 percent of what we sell goes
out of Utah. The other
Is UPS, Fed Ex, US Postal Service or delivered to the customer and or their Job.

K. Vehicles: OK, please note: that I have a small indoor forklift “usually inside a warehouse or shop” runs off
propane. We have this to make it quick
To get pallet or skid off truck. This is easier on our shoulders and back. I have two broken shoulders and Doctor has said I
will need an full shoulder
Reversal replacement here shortly. I, nor employees want back problems. We do not have signs no do we plan to have
any to put on vehicles.

L. Yards: OK, I understand. That was the reason for getting this property which included a shop in the back to keep
everything organized and inside,
Keeping our home and yard clean and well groomed.


                                                             2
M. Customers: OK, I understand. We are not a store front no do we solicit or ask customers to come.

N. Utility Demand: OK, I understand, We don’t have and will never have that kind of a need.

O. Main Structure: OK, I understand. This property has had and existing fence all the way around its property. I would
never go onto my neighbors, I
want a good and trusting relationship with all my neighbors. I have a pasture with 2 goats on south property line and a
big empty lot on my south
property line.

P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: OK, I understand. I have no plans or needs for that. Everything will stay
same as what you have seen
and taken pic’s of.

Q. Licensure: OK, I understand. I nor either of our 2 employees have a need for any kind of childcare.

I hope this answers all question’s, if there is anything else you need me to understand or you need clarification on,
please let me know.

I am desperate to get this resolved, my business has taken a huge hit because of this process and delay.
We are one of the fortunate business deemed by Pres. Trump to stay open and keep supplying product to the mining,
drilling and Geotech markets.

Covid 19 has not affected us other than making us be more cautious, the use of masks and more daily cleaning and
disinfecting.

However this process with this HOCUP has nearly put me out of business. I was an existing business already Licensed
with Draper City until I was told by Draper
city that you do not send out renewals anymore. I was also told by Draper City that I could not do business here at this
new location until I moved in.
So I moved in and of course the business had to move with me.
I can not just shut things down till this gets done. Rumors have spread among my vendors and customers because of the
current restrictions you have
me on. I do not know if I will ever regain what I have lost. lots of customers have gone elsewhere and most likely I will
never get them back.
I can do the errands, the pick up’s and delivery’s, answer the phones, get the quotes done receive in the orders, get my
label and tags on and get
them boxed and shipped back out all at the same time. I can not be in all these places at the same time. My business is
time sensitive and in most cases
product has to ship same day. This has not been happening for a month.

I have 2 broken shoulders with very minimal use. I have hurt myself, and recently at times have had symptoms of a heart
attacks.
I, nor my business will last much longer.

I am at Draper City’s mercy, please help me get this resolved and all the answers you need.
Please work with me and help me. I am trying to do the right thing here.

Sincerely, Jim
Office: 801-446-4278
Cell: 801-910-0448


                                                             3
    EXHIBIT G
RESIDENT LETTERS
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                           Planning comment
Sent:                           Tuesday, May 19, 2020 10:56 AM
To:                             TYLER HEATHER ALLAN; Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                        Re: Application USE 937-2020 Quality Diamond Tools



Tyler, thank you for the comments. We will forward them to the Planning Commission for review. -Jen

From: TYLER HEATHER ALLAN <allanspond1@msn.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 19, 2020 7:04:13 AM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Application USE 937-2020 Quality Diamond Tools

To whom it may concern:
Thank you for the opportunity to share my thoughts and opinion about Quality Diamond Tools conditional use
permit.

I have lived next to the Duncan's on 446 E 11800 S since Jim first moved to Draper. While there he operated
his business (Quality Diamond Tools) and not once was there ever a bad issue. He is a great neighbor, and
businessman.

He has chosen now to move his operations to a different location. His new location of business also touches
one of my properties (720 E 12100 S). I have nothing but good to say about the way Quality Diamond Tool
does business. I hope Draper City will grant his home occupation conditional use permit.
Regards,

D Tyler Allan

801.231.8301




                                                          1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                              Carrillo, Adan <Adan.Carrillo@slcgov.com>
Sent:                              Wednesday, June 3, 2020 3:08 PM
To:                                Planning comment; Jennifer Jastremsky; Troy Walker; Planning
Cc:                                Mike Green; Tasha Lowery; Fred Lowry; Cal Roberts; Marsha Vawdrey; * Public Works;
                                   Andrew Adams
Subject:                           RE: Home Occupational Conditional Use Permit


To Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP Senior Planner:

As a Draper resident and neighbor to the 12138 South 800 East property, I’m strongly opposed to the subject referenced
above. As you may know, this area is currently lacking curb, gutter, sidewalks, adequate street lighting, and the asphalt
pavement itself could use a facelift. Due to the lack of infrastructure for families to safely walk and play in the
neighborhood, I find it troubling that the city is considering permitting such use at this property in this residential
neighborhood. I’m not opposed to people working from home and running businesses from their homes, if their homes
and the infrastructure around them support such street use. As it is, the poor quality of the pavement will only worsen
faster if the city allows increased truck traffic to come in and out of the neighborhood. We have young kids in my family,
who play with other kids in our neighborhood and having to negotiate truck traffic, without providing suitable facilities
for us to walk, bike, and play isn’t responsible nor safe. If the City of Draper commits to adding the infrastructure needed
for such conditional use to occur, including renovating the pavement along 800 East and connecting side streets, I will
reconsider my position; but as it currently stands, I don’t believe it’s in the best interest of the City and our
neighborhood to approve this conditional use permit. Thank you very much for the opportunity to provide public
comments on the matter.


Respectfully,

Adan Carrillo
817 East 12085 South
Draper, UT 84020
801-910-2002




                                                             1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                             Planning comment
Sent:                             Wednesday, June 3, 2020 6:00 PM
To:                               Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                          Fw: Public Hearing USE-937-2020




From: Dave HANSEN <freewaydave@msn.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 26, 2020 8:31 AM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Public Hearing USE-937-2020

App # USE-937-2020
Quality Diamond Tools
Jim and Lois Duncan

I Dave Hansen from 12121 S 800 E a neighbor living across the street from the applicants give my approval for the home
occupation conditional use permit to operate Quality Diamond Tools. I would like to add to record that I believe the
previous property owner Jay Tuft of Jay Tuft & Company operated his business to some capacity out of this property.

Dave Hansen
12121 S 800 E
801-244-2039




                                                          1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          Planning comment
Sent:                          Wednesday, June 3, 2020 5:59 PM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                       Fw: APP# USE-937-2020




From: Jeremy Henrie <mrevo2005@hotmail.com>
Sent: Sunday, May 24, 2020 4:20 PM
To: Planning comment; Kimberly Henrie
Subject: APP# USE-937-2020

Dear members of the Draper Planning Commission,

Thank you for the opportunity to provide feedback regarding the following Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit for Quality Diamond Tools.

   App. #: USE-937-2020
   App. Name: Quality Diamond tools
   App: Jim and Lois Duncan
   Location: Approximately 12138 S. 800 E.

As a neighboring resident located directly adjacent to the proposed business, we ask that the Commission
DENY the conditional use permit based on the following observations and concerns. If the commission wishes,
we would be happy to speak to this request directly with the commission during its Zoom Meeting on May
28th as well.

Observations:

   1. Since taking ownership of the property we have witnessed numerous contractors working on the
      accessory garage building (proposed location of the business). Including installation of a sewer line, gas
      line, power, water and data. Other improvements include a white bitumen roof, HVAC ventilation,
      security cameras, motion lights and storage containers, newly paved parking lot and a sign located at
      the front of the property. At no time did we see any permits or building inspections for these
      improvements.

   2. Quality Diamond Tool has been operating out of the newly improved accessory structure. During this
      time, we have noticed the daily operations and it has become increasingly busier. Mr. Duncan advised
      us that he operates a drill bit manufacturing company, which is more than just a home office
      location. He manufactures and ships these industrial drill bits from the property in question.

   3. There are several employees including Mr. Duncan that start working around 7 AM to 6 PM Monday
      through Friday. A number of delivery trucks like FED EX and UPS along with Heavy Freight trucks will
      visit the property a couple of times each day. There is a forklift that is used to load and unload the
                                                       1
         materials. This has increased the number of large vehicles that travel on the roads in our
         neighborhood.

   4. On several occasions during the last couple of months there has been a high pitch fire alarm sound
      coming from the building. This causes me great concern for my home.

Concerns:
If the city chooses to approve this home occupation conditional use permit - which I hope that it does not; I
have several concerns that I would like to have addressed.

   1. Will allowing such a business to operate within a residential area reduce the value of surrounding
      property?

   2. What are the hazards and risks are involved with this type of manufacturing facility in a residential
      area and local environment - such as water contamination, air pollution / ventilation of harmful
      particulates and excess noise?

   3. Does the business owner plan to expand business in the future, and if so, how much more impact will
      this have on our neighborhood - more traffic? more employees? more noise? more building structures
      / storage?

   4. Is there any danger of fire or explosion based on the work that he is doing? Is there any threat of
      airborne illness or respiratory allergies? skin allergies? Is it harmful to pets?

   5. Is there any OSHA, EPA or local government regulation over this type of manufacturing?

   6. Have the improvements to the building been in accordance with state and local building codes? Does
      the building meet the proper fire suppression requirements? Does the building meet the proper
      setbacks for an accessory structure?

   7. Is there proper hazmat disposal for water and solid waste? Is there possible contamination of the
      surrounding local properties?

   8. Does the city require an 8-foot wall or fence around properties being used commercially, for visual and
      sound concealment? Our privacy has been dramatically impacted as a result of the business and
      increased traffic related to Quality Diamond Tools.

Again, we appreciate the consideration of our concerns and comments and would strongly encourage the
commission to deny the conditional use permit for this business.
If the commission wishes, we would be happy to speak to this request directly with the commission during its
Zoom Meeting on May 28th as well.

Thanks

Jeremy & Kimberly Henrie
801-520-6566
mrevo2005@hotmail.com



                                                         2
