NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, August 18, 2020, at 5:30 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
Determination 2020-05, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location. The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state, and local leaders, including Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at high levels and hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at high rates, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website- https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearing portions of the the meeting may send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon the day of the meeting.
a 5:30 PM STUDY SESSION 1. Report: Semi-Annual City Deposit & Investment Report - Bob Wylie Semi-Annual City Deposit & Investment Report June 2020.  a 2. Discussion: Stop Signs - Scott Cooley a 3. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.  a 4. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 3. Consent Items a. Approval of July 21, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #20-40 Amending sections 7020 and 7025 - Benefits, of the Personnel Policy Manual. Staff: Hazel Dunsmore. c. Approval of Resolution #20-41 Appointing members to the Draper City Audit Committee and appointing Mike Green as Chairperson. Staff: Bob Wylie d. Approval of Resolution #20-42 Approving the annexation of Hidden Canyon Estates Phase 6 into the Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSD). Staff: Jennifer Jastremsky. 4. Action Item: Deer Ridge Drive Update and Improvement Plan Staff report by Scott Cooley a 5. Public Hearing: Ordinances #1450, 1451, and 1452: HBA Plaza at Draper, Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Ross Ford, representing The Home Builders Association of Utah (HBA) for a Text Amendment to the 136 Center Commercial Special District (CSD-136C) code and to rezone 2.55 acres of property located at 38 West 13775 South from M1 (Light Manufacturing) to CSD-136C and to amend the Land Use Map for the property from Business/Light Manufacturing to Commercial Special District. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 6. Action Item: C.A.R.E.S. Act Funding Agreement with Salt Lake County a 7. Action Item: Ordinance #1453 (Legislative Action) Request for approval of Ordinance #1453 creating the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Board.
a 8. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held August 18, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: August 14, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.