                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020


                                           STAFF REPORT
                                           December 20, 2019

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: January 9, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Pete Kane, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6335 or pete.kane@draper.ut.us

Re:      PIONEER OFFICE CONDOMINIUM—PLAT AMENDMENT
         Application No.:  SUBD-890-2019
         Applicant:        Derek Wright, representing Draper Office LLC
         Project Location: 527 E Pioneer Road
         Current Zoning:   CC (Community Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 1.089 Acres (approximately 47,438 square feet)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Plat Amendment in the CC (Community
                           Commercial) Zone for a condominium conversion of the office building.

SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 1.089 acres located on
the north side of E Pioneer Road, at approximately 527 E Pioneer Road. The property is currently zoned
CC (Community Commercial) Zone. The applicant is requesting that a Plat Amendment be approved to
allow for the conversion of the office building into two condominium units (one per floor).

BACKGROUND
The original plat (AFFCU 12300 South) was approved by the Zoning Administrator on March 15, 2017,
with the plats for the two lots being recorded on May 17, 2017. Lot 2 includes a two-story office building
per site plan approval by the Planning Commission on July 12, 2018.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property. This category includes small-scale
commercial, planned retail, and office. The approved use and proposed condominium conversion as an
office fits within this designation.

The property has been assigned the CC (Community Commercial) Zone zoning classification, allowing



Pioneer Office Condominium                                                              App. # SUBD-890-2019
Plat Amendment Request                               1
up to 50% lot coverage, no lot, depth, or frontage requirements, and a maximum building height of 45
feet. The purpose of the CC (Community Commercial) Zone is to “provide areas where commercial uses
may be established which are generally oriented toward local residents rather than out of town patrons.
Uses typical of this zone include planned retail and office development and limited medium to high
density residential uses that can be harmoniously mixed with commercial development.”

The CC (Community Commercial) Zone zoning designation is identified by the General Plan as a
preferred zoning classification for the Neighborhood Commercial land use designation. CC zoning abuts
the subject property on the north, west, and east, and RSD-1 Foxgate Farms and R3 abuts on the south.

Subdivision Amendment. Lot 2 of the AFFCU 12300 South subdivision includes approximately 1.089
acres of land with an access easement over Lot 1 to Pioneer Road. The development includes a two-story
office building of 8,533 square feet. The amended plans provide Unit 1 with 6,843 interior square feet,
Unit 1a with 109 interior square feet, and Unit 2 with 6,762 interior square feet. There is also 189 square
feet of mechanical space and 88 square feet of storage space (both are limited common areas). The
lobbies (total of 1,310 square feet), restrooms (total of 515 square feet), stairs (total of 408 square feet)
and elevator (total of 126 square feet) make up the remaining interior common area of the building
interior. The exterior site less the building (total of 38,904 square feet) is dedicated as common area for
the units.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Plat Amendment request is
found in Section 17-9-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”). This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENT 17-9-040
The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat amendment request is found in
Section 17-9-040 of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended plat
showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is good cause for the
vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from the Division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the REQUEST TYPE
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the


Pioneer Office Condominium                                                                 App. # SUBD-890-2019
Plat Amendment Request                                2
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
         Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
         on the site, including permitting.
2.       That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of the
         site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
3.       Remove site improvements from the final mylar, including parking and landscaping areas.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       There is good cause for vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement
         has been vacated or amended.

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.       There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the plat amendment, as requested by Derek Wright, representing Draper Office
LLC for Pioneer Office Condominium, application SUBD-890-2019, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 20, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the plat amendment, as requested by Derek Wright, representing Draper Office
LLC for Pioneer Office Condominium, application SUBD-890-2019, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 20, 2019 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

         1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the plat amendment, as requested by Derek Wright, representing Draper Office LLC
for Pioneer Office Condominium, application SUBD-890-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated December 20, 2019.




Pioneer Office Condominium                                                                App. # SUBD-890-2019
Plat Amendment Request                                3
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No comment at this time.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No comment at this time.

Building Division Review.
No comment at this time.

Fire Division Review.
In a memo dated December 3, 2019, Fire Marshall Don Buckley provided the following comments
consistent with the previous review:
    1. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop drawings are
        to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with
        manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
        or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.)
        FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE
        3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
    2. Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser room
        with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or
        a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.
    3. Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via email
        to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A complete set of plans, with
        manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or
        better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW
        PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
    4. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to exterior walls,
        near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler
        riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the
        General Contractor. See attached information form.
    5. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
        plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
        their background.
    6. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type meaning
        metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous location where they
        will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in
        cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
        five (5) feet above the floor.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT H
SUBDIVISION PLAT
