Draft minutes
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS

PRESENT:             Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker,
                     Commissioners Mary Squire, and Traci Gundersen Alternate
                     Commissioners Lisa Fowler, DeLaina Tonks and Gary Ogden

ABSENT:              Commissioner John Van Hoff and Kent Player

STAFF PRESENT: Russell Fox, Jennifer Jastremsky, Christina Oliver, Brien Maxfield, Steve
               Alsop, Pete Kane, Mike Barker, Spencer DuShane and Amie Salazar

ALSO PRESENT:         See sign in sheet




6:30 PM Business Meeting

The Agenda will be as follows:

       Electronic Meeting
       This meeting will be an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As
       restrictions take place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make sure
       everyone interested in participating can do so in a manner they feel most comfortable.
           • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
           • Email your comments to planning.comment@draper.ut.us by Noon on the day of
                the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
           • If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
                meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to
                planning.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, April 9, 2020.


Motion re: Commissioner Gary Ogden made a motion to adopt the Zoom Meeting Rules and
Commissioner Lisa Fowler seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

1. Action Item: Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan Approval
   Extension Request (Administrative Action)
On the request of Corey Solum, representing Think Architecture, for a one-time six-month
extension to the site plan approval for the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 9, 2020
Page 2
located at 11450 South 820 West. Application SP-277-2018. Staff contact Jennifer Jastremsky,
801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Senior Planner, Jennifer Jastremsky, gave a presentation. She explained this site plan had been
approved in February 2019. They were asking for a 6-month, one-time extension. They met all
extension requirements and staff recommended its approval.

Commissioner Craig Hawker asked why this has been delayed.

Ms. Jastremsky replied it was delayed because the owner had some health issues.

       Motion re: Commissioner Mary Squire moved to approve a one-time six-month extension
       to the site plan approval for the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan
       located at 11450 South 820 West. Application SP-277-2018 and Commissioner Traci
       Gundersen seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

2. Public Hearing: City-Initiated Grading and Slope Text Amendment (Legislative Action)
   A request by the City of Draper for approval of a Text Amendment to various sections of
   Draper City Municipal Code Title 9 to modify the regulations pertaining to grading, slopes,
   and retaining walls on properties. These changes would apply citywide. Application
   TEXTMAP-962-2020. Staff contact: Pete Kane, 801-576-6335, pete.kane@draper.ut.us.

Planner Pete Kane gave a presentation. He explained there were issues with perceived building
height and not the actual building heights. He gave a couple of property examples and stated it was
an issue on lots that were raised. Recommended text amendments would be updating the
regulations for retaining walls and adjust driveway slope limits and front setback rise. He stressed
that current projects could not be changed since they already had their permits. He outlined the
text amendment recommendations. He gave examples of what each would look like on some
specific properties.

Commissioner Hawker asked if it was overpowering. He wanted to know how many projects
would be affected if they passed this text amendment.

Mr. Kane replied any sites that already had their permits would not be affected. The overall height
of these sites would be reduced.

Jennifer Jastremsky explained they were talking about everything east and southeast of Highland
Drive.

Chairman Andrew Adams asked if there are applications in the process of being approved that
would be affected.

Mike Barker stated if it was a pending application, this would not affect them.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
April 9, 2020
Page 3

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

There were no comments.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked how this could possibly have a negative impact on the City.

Commissioner Gary Ogden was glad to see these changes.

        Motion re: Commissioner Traci Gundersen moved to forward a positive recommendation
        the Text Amendment to various sections of Draper City Municipal Code Title 9 to modify
        the regulations pertaining to grading, slopes, and retaining walls on properties. These
        changes would apply citywide. Application TEXTMAP-962-2020 as requested and
        Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

        Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
        motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

3.   Adjournment
     Chairman Andrew Adams moved to adjourn the meeting.

The meeting adjourned at 7:05 p.m.
