Draft Minutes 8/27/2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURDAY, AUGUST 27, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:                Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker,
                               Commissioners Kent Player, Gary Ogden, Mary Squire, and
                               Alternate Commissioners Lisa Fowler and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                        Commissioner John Van Hoff and Alternate Commissioners
                               DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:                 Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Christina Oliver, Travis Van
                               Ekelenburg, Amie Salazar, and Mike Barker

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:                Spencer DuShane

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

Chairperson Andrew Adams called the meeting to order and read the electronic meeting notice
for all in attendance.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, commented that three Items that were originally scheduled
for tonight’s meeting but have been rescheduled for the September 3, 2020 meeting. Those items
included the Short Zone Change, Park Crossing, Zone Change and Land Use Map Amendment,
and the Flag Lot Text Amendment.

Discussion was made regarding if the commission needed to vote to adopt the Determination
2020-02. It was determined that a vote was not necessary.

Electronic Meeting Notice

This meeting will be held electronically

     •   Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
     •   Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on
         the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
     •   If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
         meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on
         the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

Determination 2020-02, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

A.       I, Planning Commission Chair Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 2
electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and
hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without
an anchor location.

B.     The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
       • Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
       Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
       virus.
       • COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at high levels and hospitalizations in Salt
       Lake County and Draper continue at high rates, both of which pose a risk of
       overburdening the local health care system.
       • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
       meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State
       Phased Guidelines.
       • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
       welfare of Draper City residents.
       • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
       may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
       hearings.

1.     Action Item: Fox Landing Phase 3 Final Subdivision Plat (Administrative Action)

On the request of Derek Wright, representing Wright Homes, for approval of the Final
Subdivision Plat for Fox Landing Phase 3 on 15.6 acres of land located at 11622 South Rolands
Dr. Applications SUBD-961-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Jennifer Jastremsky introduced the Item and pointed out the project began in 2014 and was now
on the final stage of the development. She explained that most of the development was in the R3
Zoning designation with a couple properties off 7th west in the RA1 Zone. She reviewed the
applicant’s proposal to create 35 new residential lots all of which comply with the standards and
requirements for each of the zones.

Derek Wright, Applicant, commented that they were ready for final approval so they could begin
construction on phase three of their project.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler asked if the one acre lots along 700 West would remain as one acre
lots or if they planned to divide and develop them.

Mr. Wright responded that there were existing homes on those properties, and they purchased the
back portions of those properties in order to complete their subdivision. He clarified that the two
lots would remain at least one acre in size and would front 700 West.

Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to approve the final subdivision plat as
requested by Derek Wright, representing Wright Homes, for Fox Landing Phase 3,


                                                2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 3
Applications SUBD-961-2020, based on the findings and subject to the condition listed in
the Staff Report dated August 17, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Kent Player

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Big Willow Creek Phase 2 Final Subdivision Plat (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Bryon Prince, representing ivory Development for a Final Subdivision Plat for
Big Willow Creek Phase 2 located at 9.22 acres at approximately 422 W 11400 W. Application
SUBD-819-2019. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Ms. Jastremsky provided an overview of the Item and noted that this project had been in the
works for several years. She pointed out there was a development agreement which covered the
property that was amended in May 2020. She explained that the development agreement allowed
for construction to begin while the bridge needed for the second access point near Jensen Farm
Development was being completed. She shared that the area was in the R4 Zone and the lot sizes
ranged from 13,000 to 10,000 square feet and public roads were 60 feet wide. Clarification was
given that the proposal met the zoning and development agreement standards.

Commissioner Player asked if the agreement included a fence along the stream and trail.

Ms. Jastremsky replied it did not.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the completion of the bridge was dependent on another developer.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that was correct. She clarified that the bridge was on the Jensen Farm
Property and that it was anticipated that construction on the bridge would begin shortly.

Commissioner Fowler inquired why the development was progressing so slowly.

Mr. Maxfield clarified that construction of the bridge was affected by irrigation in the area which
should end in mid-September. He added that both developments were actively developing but
some of the design elements took longer than expected.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the final subdivision plat as request by
Bryon Prince, representing ivory Development for Big Willow Creek Phase 2 for a Final
Subdivision Plat, Application SUBD-819-2019, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 17, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Player



                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 4
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Blue Stakes of Utah Addition Amended Site Plan (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for approval of a site plan
amendment to add approximately 2,313 square feet of commercial space to an existing
commercial building and to modify the parking lot to accommodate the addition. The property is
located at 148 East 13200 South. Application SPR-986-2020. Staff contact is Travis Van
Ekelenburg, 801-576-5622, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, City Planner, introduced the Item and indicated the property was zoned
Regional Commercial and that the General Plan supported commercial zoning in the area. The
proposal was originally approved in 2004. He clarified that the current request was for additional
training and office as well as site and architectural standard modifications. He explained that per
City code the Planning Commission could approve site plans that deviated from the required
design standards if it met certain requirements found in the section 9-22-040 of the City Code.

Mr. Ekelenburg reviewed each of the four design code deviations. The first deviation was from
code section 9-22-040D2 regarding roofline and parapet variations where there are long
continuous and undisturbed roof lines 50 feet or greater. He shared that the building currently did
not have roofline variations and was around 91 feet long. The second deviation was found in
section 9-22-040(D)(4) concerning screening mechanical equipment on the roof. He continued
his presentation and indicated the third deviation was concerned, the requirement for a minimum
of two primary materials which covered 75% of the building’s finish face found in section 9-22-
040(F)(3)(A). He explained the applicant was requesting this deviation so the proposed additions
would match the existing building. The fourth deviation was found in section 9-22-050(A)
which addressed the placement of corner buildings and required that main facades and entrances
faced both public streets and that the building should include a prominent architectural feature,
greater height, or emphases at the corner where the two public streets meet.

Commissioner Fowler inquired if they needed deviation approval or if things would be
grandfathered in.

Ms. Jastremsky explained that the existing building can stay and remain as is, but additions are
required to meet current standards and in this case they are requesting deviations so the new parts
can match the older portions that did not have to meet the same standards.

Commissioner Fowler asked if they were planning to screen the equipment on the roof.

Mr. Ekelenburg responded that they were and was unsure why the deviation was being
requested.

Commissioner Ogden asked if the applicant would be required to screen existing equipment in
addition to any new equipment being installed.


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 5

Mr. Van Ekelenburg replied he assumed they would be screening both old and new equipment.

Jeffrey Close, Applicant, explained they only planned to screen the new units with steel frames
and looters that would be painted.

Chairman Adams opened Public Hearing portion of the meeting. Nobody wished to speak and
Chairman Adams closed the Public Hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the deviation to the Roof line as
requested by Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah
Addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to approve the deviation to the Equipment
Screening as requested by Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for the Blue
Stakes of Utah Addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the deviation to the Building Materials
as requested by Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah
Addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Player motioned to approve the deviation for Building Placement
as requested by Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah
Addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Hawker



                                                5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 6
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the Site Plan Amendment as requested
by Jeffrey Close representing PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah Addition,
application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Quinn Court Office Amended Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On the request of Jay Rice, representing J-A-R Real Estate Development, for an amended Site
Plan to the Quinn Court Office located on 1.93 acres at 11980 South 700 East. Application SPR-
1031-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Ms. Jastremsky reviewed the Item and shared the plan was originally approved in 2018 and
construction on the building was recently completed. She explained that the applicant was
requesting an amendment in order to approve a deviation to the buffer wall standards. She
pointed out that the original site plan called for a six-foot wall along the north property line and
along the east side of the canal which runs through the west side of the property. She clarified
that the proposal was to leave the vinyl fence along the north property and to eliminate the
proposed fence on the west side of the property and simply use landscaping as a buffer. She
reviewed the required land use buffers within the zoning code between commercial and
residential areas which indicated that a reduction in the buffer requirement could be made if
certain criteria were met.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that Staff believes the canal met the requirement for the five-foot hedge
due to the amount of plants and landscaping around the canal. She explained that Staff did not
believe that the standards are not being met along the north side of the property.

Commissioner Fowler asked if a vinyl fence was a good enough buffer or if it had to be concrete.

Ms. Jastremsky replied that Draper requires concrete/masonry type walls for buffer fences. She
explained that these materials were more durable and did a better job at sound mitigation.

Commissioner Fowler inquired who would be responsible for fixing the vinyl fence if it gets
damaged.

Commissioner Player commented that vinyl fences were not durable and difficult to replace.




                                                  6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 7
Jay Rice, Applicant, clarified that their property line was on the west of the canal. He stated that
if they are required to put a fence up, they would like to do it on the west side of the canal. He
noted that they had landscaped the area on the east side of the canal and planned to put tables
there for people to enjoy breaks outside in the shade. He added that they would be happy to sign
a joint fence agreement with the property owners or home association along the north boundary.

Commissioner Squire asked why the wall was originally proposed on the east side of the canal.

Mr. Rice replied that the engineer must have believed the property line was not on the west side.

Commissioner Squire asked if the City had an easement for a trail along the canal.

Mr. Rice indicated the he was not aware if they City had an easement there or not.

Commissioner Squire stated she felt they needed to require a wall but was unsure if they should
allow them to build it along the property line or not.

Mr. Rice suggested removing the chain link fence to improve the look of the neighborhood.

Commissioner Squire agreed. She added that she was still unsure if allowing the applicant to put
the wall along the property line may present unintended consequences for neighbors.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item.

Christian Cole, 11963 South 645 East, indicated he lived west of the property and was
representing five different families. He commented that they were strongly opposed to not
requiring the applicant to put up a wall. He shared that they have had a negative experience
working with the developer. He stated that they originally agreed to an eight-foot wall but
allowed for six feet when the developer asked for it and promised to put it on the east side of the
canal and would leave as many of the mature trees in tact as possible. He indicated that they
were also previously promised two access lanes but now they only had one on 12000 South. He
reiterated that the neighbors were frustrated with the developer and the changes they continue to
make.

Tyson Moore, 12041 South 645 East, commented that he wanted to see a significant buffer. He
added that the spirit of the code was not to only have landscaping but a concrete barrier between
commercial to residential lots. He disagreed that the canal would be an adequate substitute for a
wall or hedge. He pointed out there were several school bus stops in the area and feels a
substantial wall should be put up for safety and liability reasons. He requested that the
Commission stick to the code and keep the requirements as they are.

John Martindale, 672 Faulkner Court, shared his property was along the north wall of the subject
site. He noted that codes were put in for a reason. He requested that the wall be completed as
originally agreed upon since the lack of a wall would not allow for a sufficient buffer or sound
barrier from the commercial area and if not, a fence agreement should be signed between the



                                                  7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 8
home owners association and business. He expressed frustration that the applicant had not helped
to fix the fence in the past or offer to take care of it.

Lewis Haupt, 673 East Faulkner Court, stated that he was the Treasurer of the Homeowners
Association located to the North of the development. He noted that when the commercial
business was approved to go in it included the condition that the six-foot masonry wall be put in.
He pointed out masonry walls were standard in Draper and there was no reason to give this
developer a variance. He shared that the existing vinyl fence got a hole in it and the developer
was not cooperative in doing their part to repair the fence and feels the offer of a joint fence
agreement rings hollow. He expressed he felt the only reason the developer did not want to build
the fence was for cost and that allowing a variance could set a precedence for other developers.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Brien Maxfield, City Engineer, stated the City did not have plans for a trail along the canal.

Mr. Rice stated some of the comments were untrue and he never attended a meeting were an
eight-foot wall was discussed. He added he was also willing to pay for repairs to the vinyl fence.

Commissioner Fowler indicated she felt the residence wanted a fence to help create a strong
buffer as well as to block sound and provide additional safety.

Commissioner Hawker inquired what was originally approved.

Ms. Jastremsky share that the site plan approved in 2018 had a 6-foot Rhino Rock wall.

Commissioner Fowler suggested they make the business comply with what was originally
approved.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to deny the amended site plan as requested by Jay
Rice representing J A R Real Estate Development for Quinn Court Office, application
SPR-1031-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 19, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Player, Squire, Fowler, and Ogden voted, “Aye”.

5.     Adjournment

Chairperson Adams asked if there were any other items of business or announcements.

Ms. Jastremsky announced that the next meeting would take place on September 3, 2020.

Chairperson Adams moved to adjourn the meeting. A voice vote was taken with all in favor.



                                                 8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 27, 2020
Page 9
The meeting adjourned at 8:03 p.m.




                                          9
