                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                           December 4, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: December 17, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us

Re:      Summit Commerce Center –Subdivision Plat Amendment Request
         Application No.:  SUBD-1084-2020
         Applicant:        Brad Reha, representing the Exeter Property Group
         Project Location: 12965 S Wheatfield Way (Entirety of Greenfield Farms Subdivision)
         Current Zoning:   M1 (Light Manufacturing) Zone
         Acreage:          26.937 Acres (Approximately 1,173,369 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Subdivision Plat Amendment in the M1 zone
                           regarding the consolidation of all lots within the Greenfield Farms
                           Subdivision into a single lot in the Summit Commerce Center Subdivision.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Subdivision Plat Amendment for approximately 26.937
acres located on the west side of Pony Express Road, at approximately 12965 S. Wheatfield Way (Exhibit
B). The property is currently zoned M1. The applicant is requesting that a Subdivision Plat Amendment
be approved to allow for consolidation of the existing lots in the Greenfield Farms Subdivision (Exhibit
F) into a single lot to facilitate future development of the site with larger commercial and manufacturing
buildings.

The existing Greenfield Farms Subdivision was recorded April 13, 1976 and contains 22 lots. The
applicant has acquired all lots in the subdivision and has been working towards receiving approval for the
vacation of existing easements and the internal public streets. The subject properties were previously the
subject of applications TEXTMAP-948-2020 and TEXTMAP-949-2020 which approved the changes to
the zoning map designation and land use designation for the properties. The properties are also subject to
an approved development agreement, DA-955-2020. All three of these applications were approved this
year on April 9, 2020.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Business/Light
Manufacturing land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Summit Commerce Center                                                                 App. # SUBD-1084-2020
Subdivision Plat Amendment                            1
The property has been assigned the M1 zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(E)(1) “the purpose of the M1 zone is to provide areas for uses
involving processing and assembly of manufactured goods, warehousing, and material storage. Uses
which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust, and fumes are excluded from this zone”. The CBP
(Business/ Manufacturing Park) zone abuts to the North, the CR (Regional Commercial) zone to the East
(across I-15), RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) and DC (Destination
Commercial) zoning abut on the South, and the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot
minimum) Zone abuts on the West.

Subdivision Layout.
The proposed layout (Exhibit E) consolidates all lots of the Greenfield Farms Subdivision into the single
lot, Summit Commerce Center Subdivision. In doing so the applicant has proposed that the public streets
and most all of the public utility easements be vacated by the City. The vacation proposal is scheduled for
review and action by the City Council on December 15, 2020, prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
Staff will provide an update to the Planning Commission on the Council’s vacation action at the
December 17, 2020 meeting.

Other easements proposed to be vacated may be vacated with the approval of the respective easement
holders. Staff will require verification of approval prior to obtaining signatures on the Final Plat, or will
require signature of the easement holder on the Plat prior to recordation of the plat.

The easements shown on the proposed plat include existing easements that will remain and a new access
easement for the benefit of the adjoining canal owners and operators on the West. Minimum required
seven (7) foot wide public utility easements for front, read and side lot lines will be required to be
included on Mylar Plat and are included as a condition of approval below.




Summit Commerce Center                                                                     App. # SUBD-1084-2020
Subdivision Plat Amendment                             2
Criteria For Approval.
The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat amendment request is found in
Section 17-9-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an
         amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is
         good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has
         been vacated or amended.

As previously noted the vacation of the public roads and easements is set to take place by the City
Council prior to review of the Amended Subdivision Plat by the Planning Commission, no vacation or
amendment of public streets, rights-of way, or easements by the Planning Commission would occur if the
amended plat were approved. Should the City Council not make a decision, or deny the vacation requests
at their meeting on December 15, 2020, the Planning Commission will not be able to take a positive
action on the proposed plat, as vacated streets and easements are detailed on the proposed plat that will
not have been vacated. Should the City Council continue their decision, the Planning Commission will
need to also continue their decision to a date uncertain to allow for the Planning Commission decision on
the amended plat to occur after the City Council decision on the vacation requests has been made. If the
City Council denies some or all of the vacation requests, the Planning Commission may choose to also
deny the Amended Subdivision application, or to continue their decision to a date uncertain to allow the
applicant additional time to update and correct the plat in accordance with the decision of the City
Council.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Subdivision Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Subdivision Plat Amendment submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Subdivision Plat Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning Commission
review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval as listed within the staff report.


If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:



Summit Commerce Center                                                                 App. # SUBD-1084-2020
Subdivision Plat Amendment                          3
         1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.        That front, rear, and side public utility easements are added to the plat in conformance
                   with DCMC Section 17-5-050(G) prior to printing the Mylar.
         3.        That sheet three of the plat be amended to indicate the separate vacation documents for
                   the roadway and easement vacations.



The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        That there is good cause for the vacation or amendment.
         2.        No public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended by the plat.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        Good cause does not exist for the vacation or amendment.
         2.        A public street, right-of-way, or easement will be vacated or amended by the plat.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Subdivision Plat Amendment, as requested by
Brad Reha, representing Exeter Property Group for the Summit Commerce Center Amended Subdivision
Plat, application SUBD-1084-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated December 4, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Subdivision Plat Amendment, as
requested by Brad Reha, representing Exeter Property Group for the Summit Commerce Center Amended
Subdivision Plat, application SUBD-1084-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated December 4, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial –I move that we deny the Subdivision Plat Amendment, as requested by Brad
Reha, representing Exeter Property Group for the Summit Commerce Center Amended Subdivision Plat,
application SUBD-1084-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated December 4, 2020.




Summit Commerce Center                                                                    App. # SUBD-1084-2020
Subdivision Plat Amendment                             4
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      Plans will comply with ordinance requirements provided that:
               a. The City Council vacates the internal roads and public utility and drainage easements
                   prior to review of the Final Plat by the Planning Commission,
               b. Minimum seven (7) foot wide public utility easements are added to the front, rear and
                   side property lines prior to printing the Mylar plat.
               c. Sheet three of the plat be amended to indicate the separate vacation documents for
                   the roadway and easement vacations.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT E
PROPOSED SUBDIVISION PLAT
2 Dec, 2020
∆



    2 Dec, 2020
∆




    2 Dec, 2020
        EXHIBIT F
EXISTING SUBDIVISION PLAT
