                                        Development Review Committee
                                            1020 East Pioneer Road
                                              Draper, Utah 84020

                                              STAFF REPORT
                                                 July 14, 2020

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: July 23, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6391, maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:       City-Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone –Zoning Text Amendment Request
          Application No.: TEXTMAP-1022-2020
          Applicant:        Draper City
          Project Location: Citywide
          Request:          A proposed text amendment to create a new zoning district called
                            Commercial Buffer Zone (CBU). The proposed zone will be located in
                            Chapter 9-11 (Commercial Zones) of the Draper City Municipal Code.
                            Other related sections of Title 9 may also be amended as part of this
                            proposal.


SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a text amendment that would apply citywide. The application
has been initiated by Draper City. The proposed zone is called the Commercial Buffer Zone (CBU) and
would have a CBU designation on the zoning maps. The proposed CBU zone (see Exhibit B) will be
located in Chapter 9-11 (Commercial Uses) in the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC).


BACKGROUND
The proposed zone has been initiated by the City Council to create a buffer area between commercial and
residential development. There has been concerns recently with applicants obtaining a zone change for
commercial projects that may have one border along other commercial properties, but will mostly be built
in and affect primarily residential areas. The intent of this zone is to provide a lower intensive zoning
option to help those commercial projects better relate with the residential neighborhoods they may the
next to. Staff would like to stress that this is just a zone that will be added to the zoning ordinance and
will be an option for future applicants. There are no plans for the City to rezone any properties to this
new designation. Zone changes to CBU will be applicant driven, should they chose to utilize the zone
when applying for a rezoning application. The proposed zone could be requested in any area of the city.




City-Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone                                               App. # TEXTMAP-1022-2020
Zoning Text Amendment                                  1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. As noted above, there are no plans at this time to rezone any properties to the
proposed CBU designation, so there is no need for a corresponding General Plan discussion. Staff does
believe that the Neighborhood Commercial designation would be the best designation for the zone.
However, a specific analysis of the most appropriate designation would be made when an application is
submitted.

As part of the creation of the new zone, a purpose statement has been drafted and will be added to DCMC
Section 9-8-020(C). The proposed purpose statement is: “the primary purpose of the Commercial Buffer
Zone (CBU) is to support low intensity commercial uses that act as a buffer between existing residential
neighborhoods and commercial development. Adopted design guidelines may be applicable when zones
are adjacent to the Town Center (TC) zoning classification.”

Text Amendment. The text amendment creates a new zoning district called CBU. The proposed zone is
based on, and has similar standards to, the TC (Town Center) zone. One major difference between the
two zones is that residential uses will not be allowed in the proposed CBU zone. Many of the standards
in the proposed zone are similar to the TC zone and a few of the graphic illustrations from the TC zone
are referenced. The text includes: use regulations, development standards, building design requirements,
and redevelopment provisions. Exhibit B includes the actual language of the text and all proposed
permitted or conditional uses have been incorporated into DCMC Section 9-11-110 (Use and
Development Standards) and specifically into Table 9-11-1.

Use Regulations
The proposed uses are similar to the permitted and conditional uses in the TC zone. It is anticipated that
most properties that utilize this zone will be smaller and can be considered as infill. Some uses noted in
the TC zone may be too intensive for the smaller infill areas. Therefore, staff has included uses that
would be most compatible with adjacent residential properties.

Development Standards
Proposed development standards for the zone are similar to the TC zone. Parking is required to be
located behind the building and screened from view of the adjacent public right of way.

Because this zone is intended to blend into the surrounding areas, items such as service elements,
landscaping and fencing are more enhanced than typical commercial development. This means that items
such as trash enclosures need to be fully screened and the front setback area must be landscaped to create
more of a neighborhood feel.

Items such as lighting and signs will need to comply with all provisions of the DCMC and there are no
additional regulations.

The maximum height in the proposed zone is 30 feet or two stories. There are requirements for the
building architectural designs to include horizontal and vertical variation and articulation like the TC
zone. Buildings must also be oriented towards the street to give them a street presence. One unique item
added to this zone is that for properties in the vicinity of the TC zone, they will need to comply with the
commercial portion of the Town Center Design Guidelines as adopted by City Council. The zone
includes a map designation exactly which properties will be held to this standard. Staff felt that this was
appropriate as some of these infill sites may be located next to or near the TC zone. Properties that are
not identified on the map will need to comply with the standard commercial development guidelines
found in the DCMC.




City-Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone                                                App. # TEXTMAP-1022-2020
Zoning Text Amendment                                2
Redevelopment Provisions and Historic Review
Some of the properties that may utilize this infill zone are older more historic properties in the City. The
proposed text amendment contains provisions that the Planning Commission can review projects and
allow for some nonconformities to continue (i.e., setbacks, height, design, etc.) if an older structure can be
preserved. This provision would allow for something like an old historic home that might be three stories
tall to be converted to a medical service use. The proposed text also has a requirement that any property
listed on a historic register (national, state, or local) be reviewed by the Historic Preservation
Commission.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and approval of a text amendment request to the zoning
code are found in Subsection 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. They are as follows:

2.        Text Amendments:
          a.     Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city’s general plan;
          b.     Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
          c.     Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
          d.     The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                 title or the general plan;
          e.     Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                 determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                 overall community benefit; and
          f.     The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                 practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
proposed text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Attachment A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
The Engineering and Public Works Division have completed their review of the proposed text
amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Attachment A.

Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the proposed text
amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Attachment A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal Division has completed their review of the proposed text
amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Attachment A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.




City-Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-1022-2020
Zoning Text Amendment                                 3
The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

1.        That Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text of the
          DCMC.
2.        That this text amendment does not compromise any of the six factors listed in Section 9-5-
          060(E)(2).
3.        That the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City’s
          General Plan.

The findings for negative recommendation are as follows:

1.        That this text amendment compromises one or more of the six factors listed in Section 9-5-
          060(E)(2).
2.        That the proposed text change is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
          City’s General Plan.


MODEL MOTION
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Commercial Buffer Zone zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-1022-2020, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated July 14, 2020.”

Sample Motion for a Modified Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Commercial Buffer Zone zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-1022-2020, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated July 14, 2020 and as
modified by the findings below:

1.        List any additional changes to proposed text…”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative recommendation
to the City Council for the Commercial Buffer Zone zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-1022-2020, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated July 14, 2020.”




City-Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone                                                  App. # TEXTMAP-1022-2020
Zoning Text Amendment                                  4
                                   ATTACHMENT A
                            DEPARTMENT/DIVISION COMMENTS

                 REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF
                          POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No comments provided.

Draper City Fire Review.
No comments provided.

Legal Review.
No comments provided.
          ATTACHMENT B
PROPOSED COMMERCIAL BUFFER ZONE
