From:           Christine McClory
To:             Laura Oscarson
Subject:        Per: Phone Conversation with Russ Fox
Date:           Thursday, April 30, 2020 4:39:36 PM


Distinguished Mayor, City Council, and Recorder:

I am formally submitting my application for the open position on the Traverse Ridge Special
Service District (TRSSD) board.

I have called Draper, Utah home for 13 years, moving to the house I built in SunCrest in 2007.
I was elected as a delegate for Eagle Crest for the entire duration that the SunCrest OA
maintained a delegate system. As a delegate I voted annually on matters affecting the
community and kept in contact with neighbors within my territory.

In 2007, I was encouraged to apply for a position as a commissioner on the 10-year Draper
Parks & Trails Committee plan. After being selected, I worked with a committee of
commissioners led by Parks Manager Brad Jensen.

More recently, I was asked by TRSSD Chairwoman Amy Baird to initiate a review of the
TRSSD lighting standard and make recommendations. I researched, prepared and presented to
the TRSSD board the new district lighting standard, which was approved and adopted 4-0 by
the TRSSD board. The new lighting standard was passed by the city council in December, and
is currently being enforced.

I actively work with the city, the TRSSD board, the district’s electrical contractor, and
supplier to coordinate and execute our lighting plan, and address outages.

I am an engaged member of the community, and throughly enjoy this place I call home.

My Bio – in brief:

Federal Copier Marketing: IBM, Bethesda, MD & Washington, D.C.
Public Relations — Editorial Dept., and media analyst: Burson-Marsteller, Washington, D.C.
Owner/President CD-PR (Public Relations, media and messaging for Fortune 500 companies
for 25 years

Current:

Professional Photographer, speaker, writer, gallery exhibits, sales of work
Founder and director of the Save a Star Foundation, 501(c)3 registered non-profit in the state
of Utah dedicated to preserving and reclaiming dark skies in the western United States.
Think tanks/Consulting

I have a strong faith, I am unapologetically patriotic, and fully embrace western and Utah
values. I am a dog lover, with two wonderful Labrador retrievers, and I spend considerable
time on trails in the canyons along the Wasatch front.

I care deeply about my community and its future, and would be grateful to serve our residents.
I appreciate your consideration of my application.

Very truly yours,
Christine K. McClory
2031 Eagle Crest Drive
801-878-4850
Christine McClory
TRSSD.lights@gmail.com
(385) 448-0212
