                                         ORDINANCE NO. 1466

         AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING A
         TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATION PERMITTING THE USE OF TENTS
         AND CANOPIES FOR RESTAURANT DINING SPACE.


         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general land uses within the City Boundaries; and

         WHEREAS, Draper City recognizes a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
virus; and

         WHEREAS, Draper City finds that COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the
health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents; and

        WHEREAS, Draper City recognizes the science behind the practice of social distancing during the
global pandemic; and

         WHEREAS, following social distancing guidelines mitigates the spread of the COVID-19 virus;
and

        WHEREAS, social distancing guidelines and public health orders reduce the typical seating
capacity for restaurants; and

        WHEREAS, temporarily permitting outdoor, tented seating for restaurants will allow restaurants
to serve the citizens of Draper while following recommended social distancing guidelines in compliance
with state and local public health orders; and

         WHEREAS, permitting temporary, tented outdoor seating for restaurants serves a compelling
countervailing public interest that protects the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper as well
as the economic viability of important Draper businesses.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City hereby finds a compelling, countervailing
public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulations contained in Exhibit A. The city council
finds the proposed ordinance is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Draper. The city council finds that the promulgated temporary land use regulations ensure compliance
with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper and easing economic
pressures on restaurants.

         Section 2. Duration. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-504, this Ordinance shall last for the
earlier of a period of six (6) months or until otherwise rescinded by the legislative body.

        Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors prior to submitting the Ordinance for
publication.


Ordinance No. 1466                                    1                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
         Section 4. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon publication or
posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever occurs first.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF NOVEMBER 2020.

                                                          DRAPER CITY


                                                          _____________________________
                                                          Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                                YES                       NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1466                                   2                              Temporary Land Use Ordinance
                                               EXHIBIT A
TITLE: Temporary Land Use Regulation permitting the use of Tents or Canopies for Restaurant Dining
Space.

PURPOSE: To set temporary ordinance standards to allow for the use of temporary tents or canopies as
additional dining space for restaurants to alleviate detrimental health and economic effects created by
the global Covid‐19 pandemic.

SCOPE: Applicable to all legally operating restaurants within Draper City that have both an active Draper
City business license and a permanent, approved indoor dining space.

DEFINITIONS:

        Tent: A temporary structure as described in International Fire Code Chapter 31: A structure,
        enclosure, umbrella structure or shelter, with or without sidewalls or drops, constructed of
        fabric or pliable material supported in any manner except by air or the contents it protects.

        Canopy: A temporary structure as described in International Fire code Chapter 31: A structure or
        architectural projection of rigid construction over which a covering is attached that provides
        weather protection, identity or decoration, and may be structurally independent or supported
        by attachment to a building on one end and by not less than one stanchion on the outer end.

        Adult staff member: A person 18 years of age or older who is an employee of the restaurant and
        capable of providing for the supervision and direction of others.

        Construction Documents: Shall have the same meaning and definition as contained in Section
        3103.6 of the International Fire Code.

LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:

Provisions of Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code shall continue to apply except as specifically
modified below with respects to the stated purpose and intent of this temporary ordinance:

    A. Application:
          1. Restaurant owners may apply to use a temporary tent or canopy as an extension of
               indoor dining space.
          2. Each application must include:
                    a. A scaled site plan illustrating:
                           1. The property lines, existing building(s) on the property(ies), existing
                               paved parking locations, location of landscaping, location of the existing
                               restaurant(s) on the site, location of the proposed tent(s) or
                               canopy(ies);
                           2. Distances between the permanent structures on site and the proposed
                               temporary tent(s) or canopy(ies);
                           3. That the location will not impede emergency vehicle access to and from
                               the property and that vehicular circulation on, off and through the
                               property, including adjacent properties, is not unduly compromised or
                               restricted;
                        4. Adequate pedestrian mobility through all sidewalks and pedestrian
                            walkways;
                        5. That the location does not cause limited visibility for the public right of
                            way or in parking lots; and
                        6. Ingress and egress from any adjacent building.
                 b. A floor plan showing interior set up of the temporary tent or canopy including
                     seating locations, electrical locations, and the location and type of heating.
                 c. An affidavit from the property owner for the location of the tent or canopy
                     dated after the enactment of this ordinance providing permission for erection
                     of the tent or canopy, if the applicant is not the property owner.
                 d. The address of the restaurant and the address of the property that the tent or
                     canopy is erected on (if different).
        3. The city has 15 days from submission to review the application.

B. Location:
       1. Temporary tents or canopies shall be located on the same property or on property
           within 250 feet of the restaurant location.
       2. Temporary tents or canopies allowed under this ordinance may only be installed on
           asphalt or concrete surfaced areas, including existing required parking for the site and
           existing approved outdoor dining spaces.
       3. Temporary tents or canopies may not be located on or within a public right of way.
       4. Temporary tents or canopies may not encroach into landscaped areas of the property.
       5. All ADA parking stalls and other ADA facilities must remain accessible at all times.

C. Size:
       1. No more than 2 tents or canopies may be erected per restaurant.
       2. The total size and maximum occupancy of allowable dining space under tents and
          canopies shall not exceed the square footage of the existing approved restaurant dining
          space and maximum occupancy.
       3. Tents or canopies may not cover more than 15% of the total required parking stalls for
          the restaurant(s). Where multiple restaurants share a site, each restaurant shall have a
          prorated amount of parking lot space calculated by proportionate share of the
          cumulative square footage of dining space of all restaurants on site.

D. Operational Requirements:
      1. Interior seating space within the restaurant must continue to be used for seating in a
          manner consistent with state and county declarations and regulations.
      2. Restaurants may not share the same tent or canopy with other restaurants.
      3. Use of tents or canopies may be subject to other agreements and regulations, including,
          but not limited to, a lease agreement with a landlord and compliance with regulations of
          the State Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control (DABC). Approval from the city under
          this ordinance does not absolve the owner or operator from any obligations under such
          agreements or regulations.
    E. Anchoring and Setbacks:
          1. All tents or canopies shall be property secured in case of wind (40 mph basic wind speed
              and 90 mph 3 second gust). Securing of the structures is the responsibility of the
              owner/operator.
          2. Tents or canopies must be anchored by water, cement or sand barrels and may not be
              anchored by staking.
          3. Tents or canopies shall be set back from buildings and other tents or canopies as
              required by International Building Code and the International Fire Code.

    F. Fire Safety:
           1. Owners and operators of tents or canopies shall comply with International Fire Code. A
                permit from the Fire Marshal is required.
           2. A full set of construction documents including structural calculations and detailed
                drawings of tent or canopy framing connections are required and must be approved by
                the Fire Marshal.
           3. All tents or canopies must include portable fire extinguishers with a 4A40 BC rating in
                compliance with International Fire Code.
           4. Exits must be marked and lighted.
           5. Compressed gas bottles used for heating must be secured from tipping.
           6. An emergency evacuation plan shall be posted in a conspicuous place near the entrance,
                and an adult staff member who is trained in the extinguishment of fires and evacuation
                of patrons must be present when the dining space is in use.
           7. No combustible waste can be stored within 30 feet of the tent or canopy.
           8. The California State Fire Marshal’s flame retardant certification seal must be visibly
                displayed on the tent or canopy.
           9. No smoking shall be permitted inside the tent and no smoking signs shall be posted.

    G. Duration:

Use of tents or canopies permitted under this temporary ordinance must be removed from the property
no later than six months from the date this ordinance is enacted or within five (5) days of the repeal of
this temporary ordinance, whichever is sooner.

    H. Inspections:

Authorized law enforcement officers, zoning enforcement officers, fire control officers, and other
governmental personnel shall be permitted free access to the temporary tent or canopy to make
inspections to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section and all other applicable laws.
