Draft minutes September 10, 2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:           Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners Kent Player, Gary
                          Ogden, Mary Squire, and John Van Hoff, Alternate Commissioners
                          Lisa Fowler and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                   Chairperson Andrew Adams, Alternate Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:            Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Travis Van Ekelenburg, Mike
                          Barker, Amie Salazar and Todd Draper

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:           Christina Oliver, Tom Draper, and Spencer DuShane




6:30 PM Business Meeting

The Agenda will be as follows:

Electronic Meeting Notice

This meeting will be held electronically
   • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
   • Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on
      the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
   • If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
      meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on
      the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

Determination 2020-09, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
A.      I, Planning Commission Chair Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an
electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and
hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without
an anchor location.
B.      The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
        •       Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
        Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
        virus.
        •       COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at high levels and hospitalizations in Salt
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 10, 2020
Page 2
Lake County and Draper continue at high rates, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the
local health care system.
        •       It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased
Guidelines.
        •       COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of Draper City residents.
        •       The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 13, 2020
       (Administrative Action)

       Motion re: Commissioner Lisa Fowler made a motion to approve the meeting minutes
       dated August 13, 2020 and Commissioner Gary Ogden seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 4 to 0 vote.

2.     Action Item: The Annex Plat Amendment Extension Request (Administrative
       Action)
       On the request of Clayton Morgan, for an extension of time to the approval for The
       Annex Plat Amendment located at 690 East 12200 South, application SUBD-733-2019.
       Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

       Jennifer Jastremsky stated this property was located 690 East 12200 South and it was
       office service designation and office residential zoning. This application had already been
       approved, but the applicant was requesting a six-month extension on this decision which
       will change the expiration date to March 12, 2020.

       Vice Chair Craig Hawker asked if this extension was due to a timing issue.

       Ms. Jastremsky replied it was a timing issue and a funding issue.

       Applicant Clayton Morgan commented this extension request would help work out
       several issues. He had found out there was an additional requirement for getting a bond.

       Vice Chair Hawker commented they had given an extension in the past and wondered if
       giving the extension would help him complete this project.

       Mr. Morgan replied he was not sure, but it would help him sort out the issues in the
       project.

       Vice Chair Hawker asked if there were any comments and there were none.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 10, 2020
Page 3
       Motion re: Commissioner Player made a motion to approve the Plat Amendment
       Extension as requested by Clayton Morgan SUBD-733-2019 subject to the conditions
       listed in the staff report dated 2020 and Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

      Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 4 to 0 vote.

3.    Public Hearing: Silverlou Minor Subdivision (Administrative Action)
      On the request by Shauna Hatton-Ward for a deviation from required street
      improvements for approximately 1.77 acres located on the east side of Fort Street at
      13455 South Fort Street. The applicant is requesting a deviation from required street
      improvements, specifically curb, gutter and sidewalk on a private street. Application
      SUBD-546-2019. Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-5622,
      travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us.

      Travis Van Ekelenburg presented on this item. He stated this application from Silverlou
      Subdivision was asking for a curb, gutter, and sidewalk deviation. This property was
      designated as residential low to medium density and was RA2 zoning. The applicant had
      run into issues during the initial lot construction phase. The contractor had stated the
      street improvements planned to be made would be difficult to construct. They were not
      required to amend the plat; they were only required to bring the deviation to the Planning
      Commission. The applicant was proposing to do 26 feet of asphalt for the private lane.

      Vice Chair Hawker asked for the history on why the applicant requested this deviation.

      Mr. Van Ekelenburg replied they could not do the original sidewalk plan without
      damaging neighboring properties

      Commissioner John Van Hoff asked what the width of the existing pavement was.

      City Engineer Brien Maxfield stated the current right of way design met City standards,
      but the existing concrete did not meet the standards. The applicant wanted to replace the
      concrete with asphalt.

      Commissioner Gary Ogden asked about the private lane.

      Mr. Maxfield replied they would just be removing the concrete ribbon and would be
      putting asphalt in its place.

      Commissioner Fowler asked if the concrete ribbon served a purpose.

      Mr. Maxfield replied it helped prevent asphalt deterioration and also gave drivers a heads
      up that they were getting too close to the edge of the road

      Applicant Shauna Hatton-Ward stated adding the asphalt would meet fire codes. There
      would not be any compromising with the structure of the road.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 10, 2020
Page 4
       Attorney Paxton Guymon commented he wanted to clarify a couple of things. This was a
       three-lot subdivision that had already been approved. They would not be shrinking the
       roadway; the only difference was all 26 feet would be asphalt instead of 22 feet of asphalt
       and 4 feet of concrete. The contractors had told the applicant that putting in concrete
       would ruin the new fences that had been installed.

       Vice Chair Hawker asked why they would not just put concrete on the side without the
       fence.

       Ms. Hatton Ward replied aesthetically it would look better with just asphalt on all of it
       and would be more structurally sound. She would be in charge of upkeep costs and
       wanted to make sure this private lane lasted.

       Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing.

       Brandon Robertson stated the issue with the plat is that it was originally approved before
       the fence existed. He believed the fence did leave room for concrete and was worried
       about the drainage, drivers going off the road, and making the road look less aesthetically
       pleasing. He wished to see the concrete strip to be put in.

       Alan Summerhays commented he had built this lane. He had put the utilities in. Russel
       Fox called him when staff decided to widen lane. No one ever mentioned a sidewalk. He
       was all for shrinking the road down and putting the trees back. He thought the property
       was ruined by taking out the trees. He was for the deviation.

       Vice Chair Hawker closed the public hearing.

       Ms. Hatton-Ward stated this was three years in the making. She did everything she could
       to meet requirements for Draper City. She was asking to do 26 feet of asphalt rather than
       have concrete ribbons. She wanted to make it look nice as possible while still meeting
       City standards.

       Vice Chair Hawker asked if she really wanted to keep this a private lane or if she was just
       trying to save money in materials.

       Ms. Hatton-Ward replied she wanted to keep this a private lane.

       Mr. Van Hoff did not have any issue with putting asphalt instead of concrete on the
       private lane.

       Mr. Guymon commented that drainage and swells would not be affected by the material
       installed in the road.

       Mr. Maxfield mentioned this was a private road and the applicant would be responsible
       for the upkeep.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 10, 2020
Page 5
       Vice Chair Hawker asked if they had to put in an entire new road of asphalt.

       Mr. Maxfield stated they would be putting an entirely new overlay of the private lane.

       Ms. Hatton-Ward stated this road was put in 40 years ago. They would be putting in a
       new overlay and put in new asphalt in some spots.

       Motion re: Commissioner Player made a motion to approve the deviation site plan subject
       to the conditions in the staff report dated September 1, 2020 and Commissioner Van Hoff
       seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners Player, Ogden, and Von Hoff voting
       in favor of the motion and Commissioner Fowler voting nay. This item passed with a 3 to
       1 vote.

4.     Public Hearing: King and Laurel Aesthetic Corp Home Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of David and Daphne Garcia for approval of a Home Occupation
       Conditional Use Permit. The property is 0.32 acres in size and is located at approximately
       13313S Laurel Park Lane. Application: USE-1038-2020. Staff contact Todd Draper, (801)
       576-6355 or todd.draper@draper.ut.us.

       Todd Draper presented this item. He stated this was a home occupation request. The
       property is designated as low to medium density area and zoned RA2. Their business was
       by appointment only, parking was only in the driveway, did not exceed inventory limits,
       and they would be the only employees. There would be no problematic odors and would
       not be advertising with signs on their property. This business would be in the evenings
       only.

       Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing.

       Vice Chair Hawker closed the public hearing.

       Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff made a motion to approve the Home Occupation
       Conditional Use Permit as requested by David and Daphne Garcia based on the staff report
       dated August 28, 2020 and Commissioner Player seconded the motion.

       Commissioner Fowler mentioned they had received public comment on this. Neighbors
       were concerned about traffic, but she mentioned it would only be one car at a time.

       Vice Chair Hawker agreed this business would not create any issues.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously against the
       motion. This item passed with a 4 to 0 vote.

5.     Adjournment
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 10, 2020
Page 6

      Vice Chairman Hawker called for a vote to adjourn the meeting and all were unanimous in
      favor of adjournment.

      The meeting adjourned at 7:33 pm
