                                       Development Review Committee
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                             Draper, Utah 84020

                                             STAFF REPORT
                                              December 8, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: December 17, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6391, maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:      Crosspoint CSD – Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment Requests
         Application Nos.: TA-051-2018 (Zoning Text Amendment) and GPMA-002-2018 (Zoning
                           Map Amendment)
         Applicant:        Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital, LLC
         Project Location: Approximately 166 E. Highland Drive
         Current Zoning: CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 17.26 acres (approximately 751,845 square feet)
         Request:          A request to create a new commercial special district and rezone the subject
                           property the Crosspoint Commercial Special District. The proposed district
                           standards will be located in Chapter 9-18 of the Draper City Municipal Code
                           (DCMC) and the new zoning designation would be Crosspoint Commercial
                           Special District (CSD-CP).


SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a zoning text and zoning map amendment for approximately
17.26 acres located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive (see Exhibit B). The property is currently
zoned CR. The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to create a new commercial district called
the Crosspoint Commercial Special District (CSD-CP). The proposed CSD-CP zone will be located in
Chapter 9-18 (Commercial Special Districts) in the DCMC.


BACKGROUND
The subject property is vacant and has never been developed. The site has been zoned as CR since at
least 2001.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan identifies the site as the Community
Commercial land use designation (see Exhibit C). This categories are characterized as follows:




Crosspoint CSD                                                          Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                 1
The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (see Exhibit D). DCMC Section 9-8-
020(C)(3) states: “The purpose of the CR zone is to provide areas where a combination of destination
oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and
protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large
scale, master planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, offices, and
various types of high density residential uses.”

The property is surrounded by a mix of zoning designations. Across Highland Drive to the north is the
Highline Commercial Special District (CSD-Highline) and CR at the corner of Bangerter Parkway and
Highland Drive. Across Traverse Ridge Road is another area of CR zoning. To the south is CR with the
Draper South Point Mixed Use project and RM2 (Residential Multiple Family Residential, 12 dwelling
units per acre). To the west is CR zoning.

Staff has completed several reviews of the proposed text and have worked with the applicant to create the
CSD that is included as Exhibit E. The proposed CSD is a retail and office development. The text of the
CSD provides a list of permitted uses and standards for the following: buildings, landscape, parking,
lighting, signs and retaining walls. The concept plan included in the proposed CSD has office as the
primary use with retail at the corner of Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road. Each component of the
CSD is discussed below.




Crosspoint CSD                                                           Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                2
Permitted Uses
The CSD provides a listing of permitted uses, there are no conditional uses shown in the text. The
permitted uses proposed are all permitted uses under the current CR zoning except for one. The CR zone
lists ‘Higher education facility, private’ as a conditional use. The proposed CSD would allow this use as
permitted.

Development Standards
There are two sections to the development standards for the CSD. One section is the standards for office
buildings and the other section is for retail buildings. The office building standards require variation in
the wall plane for structures and variable window heights. Primary materials include those typically
found in Section 9-22 (Design Standards and Guidelines) of the DCMC with the exception of EIFS being
allowed as a primary material. Similar to the permitted uses, this is a material that has typically been
allowed within many CSD’s. The text of the CSD only mentions that more than primary material is
required, but there is no minimum percent of the building façade that must be the primary material.
Section 9-22 of the DCMC requires that primary materials consist of at least 75% of each façade. The
CSD text does state that each façade shall contain a minimum of 40% high efficiency glass. Office
buildings can be up to four stories in height with a maximum height of 60 feet as measured to the top of
the parapet. This is 15 feet taller than what would be allowed by the current CR zoning of the property.
In addition to the extra height of the buildings, all rooftop mounted mechanical equipment would need to
be screened which could add approximately 10 feet to the overall height. The text of the CSD shows the
two office buildings on the western side of the project to be four stories in height. The third office
building could be two, three or four stories. Any two or three story office building is required to be
setback a minimum of ten feet from Highland Drive and a four story office building would need to be
setback a minimum of 15 feet. The office development is also required to have public space and
connections between the parking, sidewalks and roadways. There is a note in the amenities section that
lots under separate ownership in the CSD need to provide cross access. The text of the CSD allows for
two story buildings at 30 feet, three story buildings at 45 feet and the four story buildings are the ones that
can be 60 feet.

Retail buildings would be limited to one story and 22 feet in height. A typical one story retail building
that is approximately 22 feet in height is typically a pad site in a multi-tenant shopping center. Bangerter
Crossing has several pad buildings (Kneaders, Taco Time, Burger King, etc.) along Bangerter Highway
and those would be approximately 22 feet tall. The allowed building materials are the same as the office
and a minimum of two materials on all facades is required. There is language that multi-tenant buildings
have the same primary materials and standalone buildings are permitted to utilize corporate architecture,
if desired. The minimum setback from the two streets the retail is proposed to abut is ten feet. The retail
component will also need to provide a ten foot landscape buffer with the residential development to the
south. The concept plan shows four retail buildings, with three of those building having a potential drive-
thru lane.

             Development Standard                  Proposed CSD              Current DCMC Regulations
                                                                               Two primary materials per
                 Primary Materials             More than one required         building and at least 75% of
                                                                               the façade must be primary
                                                                                 Can be up to 25% of the
                Secondary Materials                        N/A
                                                                                     building facade
                    Lot Coverage                        N/A                               60%
                                              Up to 60 feet. Does not        45 feet in CR zone. Does not
            Maximum Building Height
                                           include mechanical screening      include mechanical screening.




Crosspoint CSD                                                               Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                   3
                                             Office must have at least
               High Efficiency Glass         40%. No requirement for                       N/A
                                                     retail.
                                                                            Variation at least every 30 feet
                                                                                 for at least 60% of a
                Façade Articulation                       N/A
                                                                             horizontal length of 100 feet
                                                                                        or more

         Staff Concerns
         Sections 9-18M-030(A)(1)(f) and 9-18-M-030(B)(1) – Pages 2 and 3 of Exhibit E
         The applicant is proposing that office buildings be allowed up to a maximum height of four
         stories or 60 feet and retail buildings of one story or up to 22 feet not including the rooftop
         mounted mechanical equipment or screening walls. Staff would recommend that the maximum
         height allowed for any building is set at a maximum height and include the mechanical
         equipment. This makes it straightforward for staff to interpret in the future and also gives the
         adjacent properties a better idea of what the maximum height would be. Staff would recommend
         that the maximum height is set in this document for all office and retail buildings.

         Section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(j) – Page 3 of Exhibit E
         This section of the CSD required the buffering between the office and residential to the south to
         be installed by the date that each office receives a certificate of occupancy. The CSD text does
         not specifically identify a dimension for the buffer, which means a developer could determine
         that on their own. It is suggested that a minimum buffer dimension is added and that it be at least
         20 feet. Staff would also recommend that the language is modified to require the fence and
         landscape buffer when the first site plan application is submitted for the CSD. This will ensure
         that the entire buffer is in place as construction is done on any of the office buildings.

         Section 9-18M-030(A)(2)(b) – Page 3 of Exhibit E
         The last sentence of subsection b notes that cross access is to be required when there is separate
         ownership of lots within the CSD. Staff would suggest that this section is expanded to include
         cross access across any property line and with any adjacent development, specifically the Draper
         South Point Development. The proposed concept plan appears to show a narrow access between
         the proposed CSD and the already developed Draper South Point. In addition, the Fire Marshal
         has indicated that access is needed between the two properties and the original approval for
         Draper South Point was based on the access being in place. Staff would recommend
         incorporation of language in the proposed CSD to ensure a full access or two way access is
         provided with the first site plan application submitted for the CSD project and that cross access is
         provided across any existing or future property line. The cross access shown on the concept plan
         is not adequate and there needs to be a requirement in the CSD.

         Section 9-18M-030(A)(1)(d) and 9-18M-030(A)(2)(3)– Pages 3 and 4 of Exhibit E
         There is no provision for a minimum amount of primary materials. It should be made clear that a
         minimum percentage of primary materials is required. Staff would recommend a minimum of
         75%.

Landscape Standards
The applicant has provided some general standards regarding plantings and irrigation for the landscaping.
The text of the proposed CSD requires a buffer between the office development and the residential to the
south, but there is no specific size of the buffer called out in the text. Only a six foot precast masonry
wall is called out and its location is not specifically shown on the plans. The CSD also provides a 15%
minimum standard for the overall proposed percentage of landscaping, which is less than the standard



Crosspoint CSD                                                              Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                  4
20% required in the DCMC. The applicant has also provided a list of standard planting materials for the
CSD with a note that other planting materials can be proposed upon the recommendation of a landscape
architect.

             Development Standard                 Proposed CSD               Current DCMC Regulations
                                            Buffer to be provided, but no     Minimum 20 feet between
                 Landscape Buffers
                                                    size identified           commercial and residential
                                                                             Minimum of one tree per 400
                   Trees in Buffer                        N/A
                                                                                 square feet of buffer
                                               Six foot masonry wall           Six foot masonry, precast
                       Fencing                  between office and             concrete or polyethylene
                                                     residential                        plastic
               Minimum Amount of
                                                          15%                              20%
                  Landscaping

         Staff Concerns
         Section 9-18M-040(A)(6) – Page 5 of Exhibit E
         The CSD proposes a minimum of 15% of the site be landscaped. The standard commercial
         requirement in the DCMC is 20%. There are currently 13 adopted CSD’s in the city. Of those 13
         CSD’s, there are two which have a minimum of 13%, four with a minimum of 15% and three
         with a minimum of 20%. Four of the adopted CSD’s have landscape standards, but no minimum
         percentage. The four that have a minimum of 20% are more recent and due to the proximity of
         this project to residential areas, staff would recommend that 20% is the minimum.

         Section 9-18M-040(A)(9) – Pages 5 and 6 of Exhibit E
         This section contains a chart identifying various trees that are appropriate for the development.
         Staff would recommend that the list be eliminated and the subsection simply states that tree and
         landscaping materials are recommended by a registered landscape architect. Other CSD’s have
         included specific plant lists in the past and it has shown to become problematic. It’s easier for the
         developer and staff to leave the plant materials to a professional landscape architect.

Parking Standards
Most of the approved CSD’s have a range of parking required for the uses in the CSD. The proposed
CSD also includes a range of parking. The proposed parking requirement only specifies a minimum for
office and retail uses. However, there are uses permitted in the CSD which do not fall into either the
office or retail uses, for example Higher education facility, private or Government service. For office
uses, the range is four to seven stalls per 1,000 usable square feet. For the retail component, the range is
3½ to seven stalls per 1,000 usable square feet. Below is a table of the minimum and maximum parking
requirements.

The other standards for parking states that landscape islands with trees shall be used, but then further
states that tree diamonds may be substituted. Landscaped islands are required to be placed at the end of
each parking row. In addition, all parking stalls are proposed to be 9x18 feet which is the standard in the
DCMC. No compact parking is proposed so all parking stalls will need to be 9x18.

         Staff Concerns
         Section 9-18M-050(A-B) – Page 6 of Exhibit E
         As with other approved CSD’s, parking for different uses is provided as a range of a certain
         number of stalls per square footage. This proposed CSD is similar and provides a range. Below




Crosspoint CSD                                                              Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                  5
         is a comparison of the proposed parking ratios and the current parking requirements found in the
         DCMC.

                          Use                        CSD Range                  DCMC Requirements
                                                                                Call centers: 6 per 1,000
                                                        4 to 7                         square feet
                        Office
                                                per 1,000 square feet          General: 4 spaces per 1,000
                                                                                       square feet
                                                      3½ to 7                              2½
                        Retail
                                                  1,000 square feet              per 1,000 square feet

         As seen in the above chart, the proposed parking is slightly more for the office and would provide
         more for the retail, even over and above the natural deviation of 10%. Another concern of staff is
         that the language in the proposed CSD states ‘useable square footage’ for the parking calculation.
         This could be a difficult to interpret in the future, especially as tenants move on and new tenants
         move in. Staff would recommend that the retail calculation is reduced and the CSD is clarified to
         base parking on the gross square footage, as required by the DCMC. There is also a concern by
         staff that some of the permitted uses in the CSD do not fit into either a retail or office parking use.
         For example, if an educational use was to be proposed, there would be no method for calculation
         of the parking needed. Staff would suggest that the permitted uses be adjusted or more parking
         categories are provided. An alternative would be to require all other uses to comply with the
         standard parking calculations found in DCMC Section 9-25-100 Table 9-25-1.

         Section 9-18M-050(D) – Page 6 of Exhibit E
         This section contains a requirement for landscape islands in the parking areas, but then provides a
         requirement for a minimum number of tree diamonds. The section itself is contradictory. Most
         CSD’s do have an allowance for tree diamonds and the applicant has indicated in the past that
         tree diamonds are preferred for snow removal. Staff would recommend that the section be
         clarified.

Lighting Standards
There are two lighting illumination standards proposed in the CSD. One is that parking lot lighting has a
maximum foot candle reading of four foot candles. The other standard is that lighting along a shared
property line with residential is limited to 0.2 foot candles and must be shielded. Proposed lighting
adjacent to residential is limited to 18 feet in height and up to 25 feet in the office and retail uses. Any
other proposed lighting in the CSD is to meet the currently adopted standards of the DCMC.

             Development Standard                  Proposed CSD               Current DCMC Regulations
                                                                               3.0 maximum allowed for
                                                                                        office
              Maximum Foot Candles                 4.0 foot candles
                                                                               6.0 maximum allowed for
                                                                                        retail
               Maximum Adjacent to
                                                   0.2 foot candles                   0.2 foot candles
                   Residential
                                             Maximum of 18 feet when
                                              located within 10 feet of
            Parking Lot Lighting Poles               residential                     Maximum 20 feet
                                               Maximum of 25 feet in
                                                    parking lots




Crosspoint CSD                                                               Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                   6
         Staff Concerns
         Section 9-18M-060– Pages 6 and 7 of Exhibit E
         The lighting section provides some maximum foot candle readings and parking lot pole lighting
         heights. Both the proposed illumination standards and pole heights are slightly more than what’s
         allowed in the DCMC. Staff would recommend that all lighting comply with the DCMC and the
         lighting section in the CSD only references the preferred parking lot lighting pole design. The
         applicant may consider a consistent design for wall mounted lighting also. Without a specific
         design provided in the CSD, staff would be obligated to approve any type of wall lighting fixture.

Signs
For the office component, the proposed CSD allows for a monument sign along the western edge of the
development adjacent to Highland Drive. This sign is intended to just have the name of the development.
Additional monument signs would be permitted along the south side of each building and could be multi-
tenant signs to show the name of the business within each building. All of these monument signs would
be limited to five feet in height and eight feet in width.

All of the proposed office buildings would be allowed to have signs of the individual tenants on the three
facades that are visible from Highland Drive. There would be no signs on the south side of the buildings
facing the residential area. All of these signs could include a corporate logo and would be limited to 280
square feet in size for each sign. A total of four tenants could utilize the building signage. This means
that there may be more than one sign on a façade and the total amount of signage on each façade could be
up to 1,120 square feet.

The signs for the retail component are permitted to include corporate logs and will need to be uniform in
size for all tenants in the building. Signs are limited to two square feet in size for each linear foot of the
tenant’s space. Multi-tenant buildings would allow for signs on two of the tenants elevations while
standalone buildings could have signs on up to three elevations.

A tower or pylon sign would be allowed for the retail component. The sign is proposed to be up to 20
feet tall and up to 75 square feet in size. The proposed graphic in the CSD indicates that this would be a
multi-tenant sign.

             Development Standard                  Proposed CSD               Current DCMC Regulations
                                                                               One per street frontage up to
                                            One along Highland Drive up
                                                                              24 square feet in sign area and
                  Monument Signs            to 40 square feet or five feet
                                                                                 six feet high and four feet
                                               tall and eight feet wide
                                                                                            wide.
                                                                               One square foot of sign area
                                                                                 per linear feet of building
                                            Signs on three facades, up to
                                                                                wall. If a sign is more than
                 Office Wall Signs             280 square feet for four
                                                                               200 feet from a right of way,
                                             tenants or 1,120 per facade
                                                                                   the maximum allowed
                                                                                increases to 1½ square feet
                                                                               One square foot of sign area
                                                                                 per linear feet of building
                                             Two square feet per lineal         wall. If a sign is more than
                  Retail Wall Signs
                                               feet of building face           200 feet from a right of way,
                                                                                   the maximum allowed
                                                                                increases to 1½ square feet




Crosspoint CSD                                                               Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                   7
                                                                                Up to 20 feet tall and 75
                                                                                 square feet of signage.
                                           One for retail up to 20 feet in
                                                                                Allowed for multi-tenant
                Tower or Pylon Sign         height and up to 75 square
                                                                              developments with more than
                                               feet of signage area
                                                                               100,000 square feet of floor
                                                                                          area

         Staff Concerns
         Section 9-18M-060– Pages 6 and 7 of Exhibit E
         The lighting section provides some maximum foot candle readings and parking lot pole lighting
         heights. Both the proposed illumination standards and pole heights are slightly more than what’s
         allowed in the DCMC. Staff would recommend that all lighting comply with the DCMC and the
         lighting section in the CSD only references the preferred parking lot lighting pole design. The
         applicant may consider a consistent design for wall mounted lighting also. Without a specific
         design provided in the CSD, staff would be obligated to approve any type of wall lighting fixture.

Retaining Walls
The applicant has provided some standards for retaining walls as they will most likely be needed for this
development. The standards provided state that will need to be designed in conformance with the
retaining wall code found in DCMC Section 9-27-085. The text states that all retaining walls should
comply with the DCMC or in conformance with design recommendations as outlined in the CSD. This
section should be clarified to state that the DCMC retaining wall regulations in effect at the time of the
submittal of a retaining wall should apply. No other standards are permitted.

Procedures/Application of City’s Vest Laws
The final two sections of the CSD are ones that should be provided in all CSD’s. The procedures section
does give the authority to review and approve site plans to the Zoning Administrator, who can defer the
application to the Planning Commission if needed.

Traffic Impacts
The applicant provided a traffic impact study, South Pointe Commercial Traverse Ridge Drive &
Highland Drive Impact Study, dated August 2020. Engineering and Public Works has reviewed the study
and provided comments regarding some concerns with the report. At the time of the writing of this
report, the city has not received an updated report to address those comments. Some of the concerns of
staff are briefly outlined below.

A traffic signal at 65 East and Highland Drive is identified as a recommendation in order to facilitate
project traffic to an acceptable level of service. The traffic signal is identified in the Master
Transportation Plan as a future project. The obligation to install this signal ahead of the city planned
schedule and the financial partnership to address project impacts to the intersection has not been
established or identified in the traffic impact study. The developer needs to design and construct this
signal, as a component of the CSD, or the city needs to commit to construct the signal as part of this
project. Without a commitment from the developer and/or the city, the traffic engineer should update the
traffic impact study to show the effects of adding the project traffic without this offsite improvement of a
new traffic signal. This update has not been received.

The conceptual site plan provides for a single one-way egress from the adjacent apartment development
through the site. Staff has concerns with the limitation of this access and recommends the CSD not be
approved with the cross access limitation included. Full cross access between the two commercial sites
and/or adjacent commercial zoning should not be limited. The City Council can approve the one-way




Crosspoint CSD                                                               Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                  8
egress from the apartments if they desire. The cross access language needs to be stronger to require full
access between all commercial projects and commercial zoning.

The conceptual site plan provided with the CSD shows several access points to the proposed project.
Two of those access points, one located on each of Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road, near the
intersection, do not comply with the city’s access management requirements. Access ingress and egress
to the CSD is not guaranteed with a conceptual plan. Each access is required to be analyzed during the
site plan review or subdivision review process where the access location approval is provided after the
technical review.

Any site plan or subdivision application within the CSD will be required to comply with the city
municipal code and standards such as access management requirements, full cross access to all adjacent
commercial projects and zones, accommodate internal traffic circulation so vehicle stacking does not
impact the public rights-of-way, and mitigate any offsite project traffic impacts to existing public rights-
of-way.

The Engineering Staff does not recommend approval of the CSD because the following issues are not
resolved; obligation to install the offsite traffic signal at 65 East is not established, the CSD is not
providing full cross access to adjacent commercial project and commercial zone, and the conceptual
design appears to have accesses that do not comply with the city’s access management requirements.

Zoning Map Amendment. The zoning map amendment request will change the property from the CR
zone to the newly created CSD-CP zone. The property would then be subject to the regulations of the
newly created commercial special district.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and approval of a zoning map amendment and text
amendment request to the zoning code are found in Subsection 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. They are as
follows:

1.       Map Amendments:
         a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
               City’s General Plan;
         b.    Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
               development in the vicinity of the subject property;
         c.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
               overlay zone;
         d.    The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
               and
         e.    The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
               but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
               schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
               collection.

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.     Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                city’s general plan;
         b.     Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                ordinance;
         c.     Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;




Crosspoint CSD                                                              Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                  9
         d.       The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                  title or the general plan;
         e.       Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                  determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                  overall community benefit; and
         f.       The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                  practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
proposed zoning text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
The Engineering and Public Works Divisions have completed their review of the proposed zoning text
amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Draper City Fire Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the proposed
zoning text amendment and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal has completed their review of the proposed zoning text amendment
and zoning map amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed
within the staff report.

Text Amendment:

The findings for a positive recommendation for a text amendment are as follows:

1.       That DCMC Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text of
         the DCMC.
2.       That this text amendment does not compromise any of the six factors listed in DCMC Section 9-
         5-060(E)(2).
3.       That the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City’s
         General Plan.

The findings for a negative recommendation for a text amendment are as follows:

1.       That this text amendment compromises one or more of the six factors listed in DCMC Section 9-
         5-060(E)(2).
2.       That the proposed text change is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
         City’s General Plan.




Crosspoint CSD                                                             Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment                 10
Map Amendment

The findings for a positive recommendation for a map amendment are as follows:

1.       That this map amendment does not compromise any of the five factors listed in DCMC Section 9-
         5-060(E)(1).

The findings for negative recommendation for a map amendment are as follows:

1.       That this map amendment compromises one or more of the five factors listed in DCMC Section
         9-5-060(E)(1).


MODEL MOTION
Zoning Text Amendment
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment request, as requested by Ralph Johnson
of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
December 8, 2020.”

Sample Motion for a Modified Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment request, as requested by Ralph Johnson
of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018, as modified by the following:

1.       List any additional changes to proposed text…”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative recommendation
to the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning text amendment request, as requested by Ralph
Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, application TA-051-2018, based on the findings listed in the staff report
dated December 8, 2020.”

Zoning Map Amendment
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning map amendment request, as requested by Ralph Johnson
of Utah Capital LLC, application GPMA-002-2018, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
December 8, 2020.”

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to
the City Council for the Crosspoint CSD zoning map amendment request, as requested by Ralph Johnson
of Utah Capital LLC, application GPMA-002-2018, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
December 8, 2020.”




Crosspoint CSD                                                           Apps. # TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018
Zoning Text and Zoning Map Amendment               11
                                      EXHIBIT A
                             DEPARTMENT/DIVISION COMMENTS

                   REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF
                            POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No additional comments provided.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
Any original review comments not address or resolved is included below. Informational comments will remain
through the review process as well. Responses and status of comments are added in italicized text following the
original comment.
1.       Traffic impact study (TIS) is required to be stamped and signed by P.E. registered in Utah.
         Comments were received from the applicant and P.E., but updated report has not been received.
2.       Access locations to Traverse Road and Highland Drive are not approved with CSD. Location
         approval to come with site plan or subdivision plan approvals. TIS is to evaluate the overall
         impact the area of the proposed CSD and its included uses. Traffic impacts are required to be
         address by CSD. This comment is informational and does not require a response.
3.       Peer review comments provided. See attached. Response to peer review comments received.
         Will wait to have an updated TIS to forward to peer for both follow up review and response.
4.       The study identifies one of the streets in the project area as Bangerter Highway (UDOT highway).
         The highway officially ends at 13800 South where it becomes Bangerter Parkway to its terminus
         at Highland Drive (and becomes Traverse Ridge Road). Because of the nature of the common
         perception of highway, we recommend modifying the report and figures to represent the correct
         street as Bangerter Parkway (a city arterial). The city’s street is a different functional class than
         UDOT’s highway. Applicant indicated comment will be addressed in updated TIS.
5.       Applicant is requesting a one-way egress from the adjacent project through the Crosspoint project
         area to access Highland Drive. Engineering will monitor internal traffic circulation to ensure the
         proposed circulation accommodates traffic stacking and movements without impacting the
         fronting public rights-of-way. One-way street is required to be a minimum of 20-foot driving
         surface, not including curb and gutter. Applicant indicated, “This plan has been presented to the
         City Manager and members of the City Council without objection.”
6.       TIS recommends construction of signal at 65 East due to provide traffic. Signal is shown on the
         Draper City Master Transportation Plan, 2019. Construction of this signal is required with the
         first proposed site plan or subdivision approval. Applicant considers payment of impact fees
         sufficient to address the traffic signal requirement. Engineering does not agree with this
         approach and the issue is not resolved.
7.       The city sees considerable southbound traffic from Bangerter Parkway at Traverse Ridge Road.
         The TIS reports 10% of traffic would arrive to the area from this direction, but not necessarily
         enter at Traverse Ridge Road access. Verify assumptions and allocation of trips ingress/egress.
         (The city has received numerous comments from residents indicating the appears of ease to
         access I-15 on Bangerter Parkway rather than Highland Drive from areas south of Traverse Ridge
         Road. Applicant indicated comment will be addressed in updated TIS.
8.       TIS indicates that the proposed retail access do not comply with the city’s access management
         requirements, but does not evaluate the placement of those access points. See the city’s TIS
         master transportation plan for requirements. Based on the lack of analysis showing no impacts to
         safety, speed, and good engineering practice, the retail access locations are required to meet the
         access spacing requirements to avoid potential safety issues presented by the close proximity of
         the accesses to the intersection of Traverse Ridge Road, Highland Drive, and Bangerter Parkway.
        This issues is not address in the current TIS. The traffic engineer addresses this issue by saying,
        “Our understanding was these locations had been discussed with the developer and the City due
        to the limited retail area frontage.” This issue is required to be addressed per the city’s Master
        Transportation Plan and Traffic Impact Study Design Guidelines. Owner stated, “The accesses
        to the retail have been a part of the past project master development plan for over a decade and
        prior to the updated Traffic Master Plan and is considered grandfathered under Utah law.
        Moreover, these accesses have been discussed with engineering which has proposed to continue
        supporting them as part of the CSD plan including help with the apartment access problem.”
        This response implies approval of access points that violate the city’s standards because it has
        been submitted, and not addressed, for over 10-years. Engineering disagrees with this
        conclusion. Engineering has been trying to work with the applicant for many years and has not
        reached an acceptable solution to these issues.
9.      CSD is required to identify project related offsite improvements, such as the traffic signal at 65
        East and Highland Drive, additional turning lanes associated with the project at all access points.
        Applicant referred to comment 6 response above as solution to this issue.
10.     Onsite accesses are required to accommodate onsite stacking without affecting traffic movements
        from Highland and Traverse. Street and access design are evaluated at site plan or preliminary
        plat application. This comment is documenting that the site plan(s) will be required to address
        onsite stacking and other internal traffic circulation regardless of the conceptual design of the
        project area. No response was requested from the applicant.
11.     Per DCMC 11-2-050, when private streets intersects an arterial, such as the full access proposed
        in the TIS, the installation of right and left turn lanes, including striping, markings, signs, etc., as
        well as any other public improvement impacted by the construction of those lanes, like sidewalk,
        park strip, etc. These improvements may require the additional public right-of-way dedication.
        Street and access design are evaluated at site plan or preliminary plat application. This comment
        is documenting that the site plan(s) will be required to address public right-of-way improvements
        per city code regardless of the conceptual design of the project area. No response was requested
        from the applicant.
12.     Per DCMC 9-25-080(E), cross access is required between all nonresidential uses within and
        adjacent to the project. Subsection (c) states, “Adjacent nonresidential developments access a
        street of a major collector or arterial class shall provide a combined street access between sites.”
        Applicant identified that the adjacent project is a residential development and therefore not
        subject to the cross connection requirements of the city code. This response is in conflict with the
        response provided to comment 8 above.
13.     Cross access is required for all adjacent nonresidential uses, see DCMC 9-25-080(E). In the CSD
        language (page 2 of 14) title 9-18M-030(A)(2)(b) limits it to within the CSD boundary.
        Engineering is opposed to restricting the city code in this fashion. Applicant responded by
        identifying response to comment 12 above.
14.     All signs, including monument and pylon, are required to be located on private property, outside
        of clear view and sight distance triangles. This comment is documenting that the site plan(s) will
        be required to address clear view and sight view areas regardless of the conceptual design of the
        project area. No response was requested from the applicant.
15.     Site plan provides for one-way egress from the apartments through the CSD. Connection
        between the two sites is shown as feasible. See comment 5 above for information regarding one-
        way egress. Engineering has updated its recommendation on this issue.

Draper City Fire Review.
1.     The Draper City Fire Department has no issues with the proposed text amendment.
       However we would like to point out that the exhibit of the proposed site plan shows a
       cross access to what is now Draper South Point (aka Seasons). This is how Draper
       South Point was able to be approved by the fire department originally, because it gave
       them two points of access as required by fire code. The fire department would like
       assurances within the text amendment if possible that the second access will remain as
       previously approved in the original site plan. The access will need to meet the
       minimum widths and all requirements of the International Fire Code.

Legal Review.
No additional comments provided.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
                   EXHIBIT E
PROPOSED CROSSPOINT COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
                            9-18
     ARTICLE M. CROSSPOINT COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT
9-18M-010 PURPOSE
9-18M-020 USES
9-18M-030 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
9-18M-040 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
9-18M-050 PARKING DESIGN
9-18M-060 LIGHTING STANDARDS
9-18M-070 SIGNAGE
9-18M-080 RETAINING WALLS
9-18M-090 PROCEDURES
9-18M-100 APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS
9-18M-110: EXHIBITS

9-18M-010: PURPOSE

The Crosspoint commercial special district (hereafter “CSD”) contains approximately 17
acres that is bordered by Highland Drive on the north, Traverse Ridge Drive on the
northeast and 65 East on the west. The size of the property allows for a master
planned office and commercial project. The Draper City general plan goals and
objectives are reflected in the overall Crosspoint CSD elements for the following land
uses, architectural standards signage, site design, and landscape standards. The
commercial special district aims to broaden the commercial tax base of the city while
providing amenities to the city residents such as access to trails and open space.

9-18M-020: PERMITTED USES

Bank or financial institution
Business service
Convenience store
Daycare, general
Gasoline service station
Government service
Higher education facility, private
Higher education facility, public
Hotel
Laundry or dry cleaning, limited
Laundry services
Media services
Medical service
Municipal use
Office, general
Preschool, general
Printing and photocopying, limited
Personal care service
Recreation and entertainment, indoor
Restaurant, fast food (including drive thru)

                                                                       Page 1 of Exhibit E
Restaurant, general
Retail, general

9-18M-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

The development standards of the Crosspoint Commercial Special District will guide the
design of the buildings, landscaping, parking and signage located within the district
boundaries. The site plan provides for office, retail and general commercial
development in designated areas in accordance with the development standards set
forth in this article.

All buildings within the commercial special district shall comply with the following
respective development standards:

A.     Office:

       1.        Standards:

                 (a)   In general, the architecture shall be the primary tool to create a
                       strong sense of identity and place throughout the business park.
                       All buildings shall be articulated with use-appropriate scale, form,
                       materials, and colors carefully considered and incorporated
                       throughout the development phases. Building facades shall create
                       interest by selecting three or more of the following architectural
                       features: articulation of window mullions, variable window heights,
                       two or more surface planes, and variations in the depth of floor
                       plates.

                 (b)   All building facades shall have similar character achieved by using
                       similar materials, colors, features, forms and design elements
                       appropriate to the scale of the various building sizes and depths,
                       but shall not be required to be exactly the same.

                 (c)   Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite
                       metal panel, glass, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete,
                       GFRC, or tile.

                 (d)   More than one (1) primary material shall be required on all building
                       facades.

                 (e)   Office areas or buildings shall have a minimum of forty percent
                       (40%) high efficiency glass.

                 (f)   Office buildings shall be two (2), three (3) or four (4) stories. Two-
                       story buildings shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in height, three-story
                       buildings shall not exceed forty-five (45) feet in height, and four-
                       story buildings shall not exceed sixty (60) feet in height. Building
                       height does not include mechanical equipment, screening and


                                                                              Page 2 of Exhibit E
                      parapet walls. The height of the two (2) west buildings shall be four
                      (4) stores. The height of the next building east may be either two
                      (2) or three (3) stories.

               (g)    All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened
                      from view either by an enclosure or parapet wall not exceeding the
                      height of the equipment.

               (h)    Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6) foot high masonry enclosure
                      providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be
                      constructed with one or more materials compatible in material and
                      color of the main building on the lot or parcel for which it is
                      servicing.

               (i)    The minimum setback from Highland Drive for four-story offices
                      shall be fifteen (15) feet and ten (10) feet for two or three-story for
                      offices.

               (j)    A buffering separation shall be required between the office use and
                      the contiguous residential use to the south. A six foot (6’) high
                      fence shall be constructed along the property line separating the
                      asphalt parking area of the offices from the existing residential uses
                      by the date each office receives a certificate of occupancy. The
                      fence shall be of pre-cast masonry construction. The area between
                      the asphalt parking area for each office and the existing residential
                      uses shall also be landscaped as required hereafter.

               (k)    Retaining walls shall be constructed with pre-formed concrete
                      blocks, anchored blocks or stacked boulders according to the civil
                      engineering standards for each in accordance with Section 9-27-
                      085 of the DCMC.

     2.        Amenities: The office park shall encourage interaction with the outdoor
               environment by providing the following:

               (a)    Conversation or gathering areas with seating shall be constructed
                      proximate to office buildings within green space or on patios.

               (b)    The Crosspoint plan shall provide connectivity between office
                      locations and within the retail areas with sidewalks and roadways.
                      Cross access agreements shall be required where there is separate
                      ownership of lots within the CSD.

B.   Retail:

     1.        The architectural style for retail buildings shall be contemporary designs.
               The buildings shall utilize scale, form, materials, and colors illustrative of
               the architectural style. Single-story retail buildings shall not exceed


                                                                              Page 3 of Exhibit E
           twenty-two (22) feet in height not including mechanical equipment,
           screening and parapet walls.

     2.    Building primary materials shall consist of glass, granite, metal, composite
           metal panel, stone, EIFS, brick, architectural concrete, GFRC or tile.

     3     At least two (2) primary materials shall be required on all building facades.

     4.    A multi-tenant building shall utilize a consistent palette of primary
           materials for the entire building. Stand-alone buildings may use primary
           materials and architecture pertaining to the business or corporate identity
           of such tenant.

     5.    All mechanical equipment, wherever located, shall be screened from view
           either by an enclosure or parapet wall not exceeding the height of the
           equipment

     6.    Dumpsters shall be located in a six (6) foot high masonry enclosure
           providing visual screening of the receptacle. Enclosures shall be
           constructed with one or more materials compatible in material and color of
           the main building on the lot or parcel for which it is servicing.

     7.    The minimum setbacks of buildings from public rights-of-way along
           Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road shall be no less than ten (10)
           feet.

     8.    The retail component shall be buffered from residential uses with a
           landscape buffer of at least ten (10) feet.

9-18M-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS

A.   Landscape Standards: The overall project will be landscaped with sensitivity to
     its environment. A consistent palette of low water-use plants tree types, plant
     materials, and ground covers will be incorporated throughout in relation to the
     architecture to create a strong and consistent sense of place and identity. The
     tree and plant palette will be submitted in conjunction with specific site plan
     approval application. The landscape design shall comply with the following
     standards:

     1.    The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances with
           entry monuments.

     2.    Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate
           outdoor spaces for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and
           entrances.

     3.    The landscape shall promote water conservation by the use of water wise,
           drip irrigation, and low water-use plants plant types.


                                                                       Page 4 of Exhibit E
4.   Tree palette shall be a combination of deciduous and non-deciduous trees
     including shade and ornamental trees.

5.   The initial tree size shall have a minimum two-inch (2”) caliper and be
     minimum six feet (6’) high.

6.   The minimum landscape percentage for office and retail uses shall be
     fifteen percent (15%) inclusive of all phases of Crosspoint CSD. A project
     or phase having more than the minimum percentage may have its excess
     percentage credited to the remaining projects or phases. A development
     project or phase having less than the minimum percentage is acceptable
     so long as the remaining project or projects make up any deficiency as a
     condition of approval.

7.   Detention basins shall be landscaped pursuant to applicable provisions of
     the City Code and the landscaping shall be maintained by the owner.

8.   Low water-use plants landscaping is required throughout the
     development.

9.   The following plant materials are a standard for use within the CSD.
     However, alternate species or trees/shrubs with similar characteristics
     may be used in addition to those in this list where recommended by a
     professional landscape architect:


     Deciduous Trees
     BOTANICAL NAME                   COMMON NAME                    SIZE
     Acer platanoides 'Crimson                                       2.0"
     King'                            Crimson King Maple             cal.
                                                                     2.0"
     Acer pseudoplatanus              Sycamore Maple                 cal.
                                                                     2.0"
     Crataegus crus-galli 'Inermis'   Thornless Cockspur             cal.
                                                                     2.0"
     Catalpa speciosa                 Northern Catalpa               cal.
     Fraxinus excelsior 'Golden                                      2.0"
     Desert'                          Golden Desert Ash              cal.
     Fraxinus pennsylvanica                                          2.0"
     'Cimmaron'                       Cimmaron Green Ash             cal.
     Gleditsia triacnathos                                           2.0"
     'Shademaster'                    Shademaster Honeylocust        cal.
                                                                     2.0"
     Morus alba 'Stribbling'          Fruitless Mulberry             cal.
     Platanus x acerifolia                                           2.0"
     'Bloodgood'                      London Planetree               cal.


                                                                Page 5 of Exhibit E
                                                                                2.0"
             Tilia americana 'Redmond'          American Linden                 cal.
                                                Musashino Columnar              2.0"
             Zelkova serrata 'Musashino'        Zelkova                         cal.

             Evergreen Trees
             BOTANICAL NAME                     COMMON NAME                     SIZE
                                                                                6'
             Picea Abies                        Norway Spruce                   Height
                                                                                6'
             Pinus nigra                        Austrian Pine                   Height
             Picea omerika 'Wells               Wells Riverside Siberian        6'
             Riverside'                         Spruce                          Height
                                                                                6'
             Pinus sylvestris                   Scotch Pine                     Height

9-18M-050: PARKING DESIGN

The commercial special district will be configured to include landscaping of parking
areas and shall be designed in accordance with the following standards:

      A.     The range of parking for office buildings shall be a minimum of four (4)
             stalls and a maximum of seven (7) stalls per one thousand (1,000)
             useable square feet.

      B.     The range of parking for retail uses shall be a minimum of 3.5 (three and
             one-half) stalls and a maximum of seven (7) stalls per one thousand
             (1,000) useable square feet.

      C.     Parking stalls shall be eighteen feet (18') in length and a minimum of nine
             feet (9') in width.

      D.     Landscape islands with trees shall be used to separate drive isles from
             parking spaces in office and retail areas. The maximum number of
             parking spaces in a row without landscaping separation with tree
             diamonds shall be twenty (20) spaces. Tree diamonds with five feet (5’)
             on a side may be substituted for landscape islands. Each diamond shall
             include one (1) deciduous tree with ground cover.

      E.     Office and landscape islands shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width
             and a length as long as the length of either single or end to end parking
             spaces as applicable. The islands shall be placed at the end of each
             parking row.

9-18M-060: LIGHTING STANDARDS

A.    Parking lot lighting in office and retail areas shall be illuminated according to the
      following standards:

                                                                           Page 6 of Exhibit E
      1.     The maximum illumination shall be four (4) foot candles in general parking
             lot locations.

      2.     Light fixtures installed along a perimeter property line shared by property
             that is used as a residential lot or zoned for residential use, shall be limited
             to 0.2 foot candles and shall utilize house-side shields or lights capable of
             producing a specific limited lighting pattern that would not directly
             illuminate the contiguous residential property.

      3.     Other lighting not addressed in this CSD must comply with the Section 9-
             20 of the DCMC|.

B.    Parking lot lighting for offices shall not be taller than eighteen feet (18’) within 10
      feet of a shared property line with a residential use. Parking lot lighting may be
      increased to a maximum height of twenty-five feet (25’) where not installed along
      a perimeter property line shared by property that is used as a residential lot or
      zoned for residential use. The illumination field shall be directed away from
      illuminating a property used as a residential lot or zoned for residential use.

C.    Round poles and fixtures shown in Exhibit D shall be uniform throughout the
      Crosspoint CSD.

D.    Lighting shall be designed for energy conservation.

9-18M-070: SIGNAGE

Signage design and location will be an important component of the Crosspoint CSD.

A.    Signage for Buildings:

      1.     One (1) monument shall be allowed at the corner of 65 East and Highland
             Drive to identify the project name: Crosspoint Office Park. One (1)
             monument sign shall be allowed per office building identifying the address
             of each office building and its tenants. Each monument sign shall have a
             uniform, architecturally compatible design consistent with the Crosspoint
             office buildings. The lettering shall have size and separation for
             readability. Locations on Highland Drive must meet adequate sight
             distance requirements. The monument signs in this paragraph shall not
             exceed five feet (5’) in height and eight feet (8') in width.

      2.     Each office building may have building signage on each of the three
             facades that are parallel and perpendicular to Highland Drive. Such signs
             may have individually illuminated letters and may include an illuminated
             corporate logo. The size of the lettering in each sign shall not exceed two
             hundred-eighty (280) square feet. The height of the letters shall not
             exceed six feet (6’). The logo may be in addition to the lettering but shall



                                                                            Page 7 of Exhibit E
           not exceed the lettering height. Signage for each office building shall be
           limited to a total of four (4) tenants.

B.   Signage for Retail Buildings:

     1.    The letters may be individually mounted or mounted on a background grid
           or system to enable minimal penetrations of building surfaces and
           concealment of wiring for illumination of letters.

     2.    Signage may include corporate logos.

     3.    The lettering shall be uniform in size where there are multiple shops in a
           single building.

     4.    The combined total of all wall signs shall not exceed a maximum ratio of
           two (2) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building face length or the
           face length of the tenant’s space of a multi-tenant building.

     5.    Single tenant buildings or corner tenants of multi-tenant buildings may
           have signage on three elevations. Other tenants in multi-tenant buildings
           may have signs on two elevations.

     6.    Tower or Pylon Signs shall comply with these standards:

           a.     One (1) shall be permitted in the retail component.

           b.     The maximum height shall be twenty (20) feet.

           c.     The maximum area shall be seventy five (75) square feet.

           d.     All signs shall be located outside of public utility easements.

C.   The following types of signs are prohibited:

     1.    Flat faced box or cabinet signs.

     2.    Painted signs.

     3.    Neon signs.

D.   Locations of signs shall be outside of public rights of way and, as shown below,
     are intended to be approximate locations:




                                                                         Page 8 of Exhibit E
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                Conceptual Example of Retail Tower or Pylon Signage:
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0" 2' - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"
                                                                  0" - 0"2' - 0"2' - 0"




                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"          1' - 0"        6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                                                                    16th Federal Credit Union                                                                                                    12' - 0"
                                                                                          1' - 6"   5' - 0"   1' - 6"          1' - 0"       6' - 0"        1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                                                                         Emergency Care
                                                         0"-5'0"- 2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' -- 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Top
                                                                                                                                         Happy Teeth, DDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2' - 0"6'
                                                0"-5'0"- 2'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12' - 0"
                                                                                                                                         Miracle Cleaners
                                                                                                                                                                                                          6' - 0" 6' - 0"6'
                                   5' - 0" 5' - 2'




                                                                                                                                          Close Haircuts
                                 - 0"




                                                                                                                                           Total Beauty
                              - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                     - 0"
                           5' 5'
5' - 0"5' - 0" 5' - 0"5' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                  6' 4'




                                                                                                                                          San Fran Pizza
                                                                                                                                                                       4' - 0"4' - 0" 4' - 0"4' - 0"




                                                                                                                                           Fast Burgers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Base
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 9 of Exhibit E
                Conceptual Examples of Office Monument Signage:




9-18M-080: RETAINING WALLS

When the improvements include retaining walls, the owner shall have the option of
designing and constructing the retaining walls in compliance with Section 9-27-085 of
the DCMC or in conformance with the design recommendations provided by: 1) a
licensed geotechnical (and structural, if needed) engineer, 2) review verification by
Draper City, and 3) on-site observation, testing and special inspection (if needed) during
construction.

9-18M-090: PROCEDURES

Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits shall
constitute conceptual site plan approval in accordance with City ordinances. Site plan
approval for the office portion of the CSD may be approved administratively by the
Zoning Administrator upon finding substantial compliance with the terms of the CSD, or
the Zoning Administrator may defer the review of the application to the Planning
Commission. Except provided otherwise herein, all other permits shall be processed in
accordance with the Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures. The
images and renderings in this article are conceptual and may be modified by the
developer.

9-18M-100: APPLICATION OF CITY’S VESTED LAWS

Draper City ordinances, adopted codes, policies, regulations, standards and procedures
shall apply to the development of the Crosspoint Commercial Special District unless
specifically addressed by provisions of this article.


9-18M-110: EXHIBITS

A.    Conceptual Site Plan
B.    Office Preliminary Drawings
C.    Conceptual Retail Examples of Uses for Retail Pads and In-Line Shops
D.    Conceptual Examples of Lighting Complying With City Standards


                                                                        Page 10 of Exhibit E
                            Exhibit A
                            Site Plan
(Locations, Footprints and Building Configurations Are Conceptual)




                                                           Page 11 of Exhibit E
         Exhibit B
Preliminary Office Drawings




                              Page 12 of Exhibit E
                             Exhibit C
Conceptual Retail Examples of Uses For Retail Pads and In-Line Shops




                                                          Page 13 of Exhibit E
                                Exhibit D
Conceptual Examples of Lighting Complying With Crosspoint CSD Standards




                                                          Page 14 of Exhibit E
