                   REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                          Mayor & City Council
From:                        Hazel Dunsmore
Date:                        02/12/2020
Subject:                     Resolution 20-10 amending Section 8080 – Sick Leave, and Section 9030
                             – Tuition Reimbursement of the Personnel Policy Manual


Applicant Presentation:      N/A

Staff Presentation:          Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director

RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Resolution 20-10 amending Section 8080 – Sick Leave and Section 9030 – Tuition
Reimbursement

Section 9080
Sick leave is provided to employees as a form of insurance to make sure pay continues during an illness.
It is not intended to serve as a substitute for other types of leave and there is no pay out of sick leave if
an employee leaves employment with Draper City.
     1. Sick leave is normally accrued at 3.69 hours per pay period. Sometimes new employees will
         come to work when sick because they have no accrued sick leave available. It is proposed that
         new hires be given 24 hours of sick leave upon hire.
     2. To discourage use of sick leave to cover incidental time off, Human Resources may request a
         doctor’s note for one or two days of absence if sick leave abuse is suspected.

Section 9030
The proposal is to allow an employee to submit their application for reimbursement prior to coursework
starting, or within the first 30 days of any course being taken. This is a reimbursement and is not paid up
front. An employee must get a passing grade in the class and show they paid for the course in order to
get tuition reimbursement.

The proposed policy amendments have been reviewed by legal counsel and has also been reviewed by
department directors.

FISCAL IMPACT:
Sick leave balances are not paid out when an employee leaves Draper City. There is no fiscal impact.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
  • Proposed Resolution No. 20-10
                             RESOLUTION NO. 20-10
      A RESOLUTION BY THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION 8080
      – SICK LEAVE, AND SECTION 9030 – TUITION REIMBURSEMENT OF THE
      PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL.


         WHEREAS, The City Council, from time to time, reviews and adopts policies and procedures to
assist in the efficient utilization of scarce City resources and the fair and uniform application of requirements
and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed the proposed amendment to the Personnel Policy
Manual and has determined to amend Section 8080 and Section 9030; and

        WHEREAS, The City Council believes this change to the Personnel Policy Manual is in the best
interest of the employees of Draper City.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby approve the amendment to the
Personnel Policy to amend Section 8080 and Section 9030 as attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.

         Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 18th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2020.


                                                        DRAPER CITY


                                                        _____________________________
                                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker
                                                             EXHIBIT “A”

Section 8080 – SICK LEAVE

1.   Employees are eligible for paid sick leave if:

          A) They work at least forty hours per week;
          B) They have accrued hours of sick leave to cover the absence; and
          C) The sick leave is authorized by their supervisor.

2.   Sick leave is a form of insurance to make sure pay continues during an illness. It is not intended to serve as a substitute for other
     types of leave. Abuse of sick leave may result in corrective action.

3.   Upon hire, all new full-time employees will receive a bank of 24 hours of sick leave. The intent is to ensure that new employees will
     not come to work ill because they have no sick leave available.

4.   Sick leave will accrue at the rate of 3.69 hours of sick leave pay period (12 days per year). For firefighters it is accrued at a rate of
     5.54 hours (12 days per year). Unused sick leave balances at the end of the calendar year will be carried over to succeeding years in
     an unlimited amount.

5.   Sick leave may be used for reasons of personal sickness or disability. Up to 6 days of sick leave per calendar year may be used by an
     employee to care for a spouse or child.

6.   Sick leave used beyond any 3-day period will require a physician’s verification whether for employee or family member. Unverified
     sickness will be charged to vacation leave or leave without pay. Human Resources may request a doctor’s note for one or two days
     absence in situations where sick leave abuse is suspected.


Section 9030 - EDUCATION AND TUITION REIMBURSEMENT

Employees are encouraged to continue their education in order to maintain and enhance current skills and to prepare themselves for
advancement opportunities. Consequently, the City offers educational assistance according to the following guidelines.

1.   Education Must Not Interfere With Job Performance. Education must not unduly interfere with an employee's job responsibilities
     and must be completed during non-work hours, unless otherwise directed or approved by their Department Director with the written
     consent of the City Manager.
2.   Requirements for Educational Assistance. Employees desiring to enroll in a course at an accredited institution must obtain
     approval in writing from their immediate supervisor, Department Director, and Personnel Administrator. All paperwork must be
     completed, signed, presented to Human Resources for verification, and filed appropriately prior to attendance to, or within the first 30
     days of any course taken. Financial assistance may be provided to full-time employees for continuing education when the following
     requirements are met:
          A) Acceptable Educational Institutions. The educational experience must take place at accredited colleges, universities, or trade
          schools. Correspondence or on-line courses qualify for assistance only with prior approval from an employee’s Department
          Director.
          B) Completion of Initial Review Period. Employees receiving assistance must have completed their initial review period with the
          City.
          C) Employees must be in Active Employment Status.
          D) Satisfactory Job Performance. Employees must be performing satisfactorily. Additionally, employees who have been subject
          to corrective action in the last year are generally not eligible for assistance.

3.   Department Director Pre-Approval. Requests for educational assistance must be approved prior to enrollment or within the first 30
     days of class. All requests are subject to necessary appropriations by the City Council and are approved on a first-come first-served
     basis.
