                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1413


AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE
DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING CITY COUNCIL, MAYOR, CITY
MANAGER, LEGISLATION, APPOINTED OFFICERS, AND TAKING OFFICE.


       WHEREAS, Title 2 regulates general provisions regarding the City Council, Mayor,
City Manager, Legislation, Appointed Officers, and taking office of the Draper City Municipal
Code; and

         WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability,
or clarity; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed text amendment and finds good
cause to revise the terms and provisions of Title 2.

      NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings
to amend Title 2 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) Certain provisions of Title 2 have
become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity. 2) The proposed amendments are
in compliance with the Utah Code Annotated. 3) The proposed amendments are in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.

        Section 2. Revision. Title 2 of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to make non-
substantive corrections to the attached Exhibit A, which may include corrections of punctuation,
spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting the Ordinance to Sterling Codifiers.

        Section 4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THIS 11th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2020.

ATTEST:                             DRAPER CITY



_________________________________   _____________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder       Mayor Troy K. Walker
VOTE TAKEN:             YES      NO

Councilmember Green     ______   ______

Councilmember Lowery    ______   ______

Councilmember Vawdrey   ______   ______

Councilmember Lowry     ______   ______

Councilmember Roberts   ______   ______

Mayor Walker            ______   ______
            EXHIBIT A
COMPLETE PROPOSED TEXT AMENDMENT
Chapter 2-1 CITY COUNCIL

Sections:

2-1-010             Form of Government.
2-1-020             Governing Body.
2-1-030             Powers and Duties.
2-1-040             Meetings.

2-1-010         Form of Government. Draper City has previously adopted by ordinance aoperates under
a manager six-member council form of government and appointedwith a person asan appointed city manager
pursuant to provisions of Section 10-3b-924 of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended.

2-1-020           Governing Body. The governing body of Draper City shall be a council composed of six
(6) members, one of whom shall be the Mayor and five (5) of whom shall be Council Members, which council
is hereinafter referred to as the “City Council.”

2-1-030           Powers and Duties. The City Council is the legislative body of the city and shall exercise
the legislative powers and perform the legislative duties and functions of the city and may perform such other
functions as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by law. The City Council may also exercise
any executive or administrative power and perform or supervise the performance of any executive or
administrative duty or function that has not been given to the Mayor under state law or removed from the
Mayor in accordance with and subject to the provisions set forth in Utah Code Annotated Section 10-3b-303,
as amended.The City Council shall exercise the legislative and executive powers of Draper City and may
perform such other functions as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by law.

2-1-040         Meetings. Meetings of the City Council shall be governed by the rules and procedures
adopted by the City Council by resolution.




Title 2 Chapter 1
Page 1 of 1
Chapter 2-2 MAYOR

Sections:

2-2-020 Powers of Mayor as Member of the City Council.
2-2-030 Restrictions on Mayor.
2-2-040 Budget Officer.

Section 2-2-020             Powers of Mayor as Member of the City Council.

      A.             (a)      Presiding Officer. The Mayor shall be the Chairman and preside at all meetings of
            the City Council.

      B.             (b)     No vote. The Mayor shall not vote at meetings of the City Council, except in the
            following cases:

                    (1).    On each matter for which there is a tie vote of the other council members present
            at a council meeting; or

                    (2.)    when the council is voting on:

                            (i)a. whether to appoint or dismiss the municipalcity manager; or

                           (ii)b. an ordinance that enlarges or restricts the mayor's powers, duties, or
                           functions.
of a tie vote of the City Council, in which case the Mayor may vote if he or she elects to do so.

        (c)C. No veto. The Mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the City Council unless
otherwise specifically authorized by statute.

            (d)D.   Mayor Pro Tempore.

                     (1)1. In the absence of the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the
            City Council may elect a member of the City Council to preside as Mayor pro tempore, who shall
            have all of the powers and duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability.

                    (2)2. The election of a Mayor pro tempore shall be entered in the minutes of the City
            Council meeting at which he or she officiatesis elected.

                     (3)3. Any member of the City Council elected as Mayor pro tempore shall still retain his
            or her power and authority as a member of the Council and shall be entitled to vote as a member of
            the City Council on all matters.

                    (4)4. The Mayor pro tempore may be elected and so designated for the duration of up to
            one calendar year.


Title 2 Chapter 2
Page 1 of 2
        (e)E. Authority to Represent. The Mayor shall possess the authority to officially represent the
City Council in all policy making and legislative matters with other public and private agencies,. hHowever,
such authority shall not be construed to permit the Mayor to exercise any power delegated to the City
Council unless specifically authorized in advance by the City Council authorize including entering into the
making of any binding commitments, contracts or agreements which involve the encumbrance of the
expenditure of City funds except as specifically authorized in advance by the City Council in accordance
with procedures set forth in the Utah Uniform Municipal Fiscal Procedures Act, as amended.

Section 2-2-030          Restrictions on Mayor. The Mayor may not serve as the City Recorder or as the
City Treasurer.

Section 2-2-040        Budget Officer. The Mayor shall serve as the Draper City Budget Officer or may
appoint some person to serve as the Budget Officer with the approval of the City Council.




Title 2 Chapter 2
Page 2 of 2
Chapter 2-3 CITY MANAGER

Sections:

2-3-010             Office Created.
2-3-020             Appointment.
2-3-030             Residence.
2-3-040             Condition and Term.
2-3-050             Resignation.
2-3-060050                  Compensation.
2-3-070             Office and Time Spent.
2-3-080060                  Duties, Control and Discretion.
2-3-090070                  Limitations.
2-3-100080                  Acting City Manager.

Section 2-3-010          Office Created. The office of City Manager has been heretofore created and
established pursuant to Section 10-3-924 of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended, and shall continue in
force and effect as an appointed office of the City.

Section 2-3-020           Appointment. The City Council shall by majority vote appoint a qualified person
to the office of City Manager. The term of office, salary, benefits, duties and termination of the City
Manager shall be set out in written contract prior to the time of appointment, which contract shall be
negotiated and approved by written Resolution of the City Council.

Section 2-3-030          Residence. The City Manager need not be a resident or a qualified elector of
Draper City at the time of his or her appointment or thereafter.

Section 2-3-040 Condition and Term. The City Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
The City Council may, by contract duly executed, set the terms and conditions of employment of the City
Manager by duly executed contract.. The City Manager may be removed and the employment contract
terminated with or without cause by a majority vote of the City Council. In any case where the City Manager
is removed without cause, the City shall pay the City Manager severance pay as provided by agreement.

Section 2-3-050          Resignation. Before voluntarily resigning from the position of City Manager, the
City Manager shall give the City Council at least thirty (30) days notice in writing of his or her intention to
resign.

Section 2-3-060050      Compensation. The salary, fringe benefits, and other compensation of the City
Manager shall be set from time to time by the City Council.

Section 2-3-070          Office and Time Spent. The City Manager shall maintain an office in City Hall
and shall spend such time in the performance of his or her duties as is necessary or as may be required
from time to time by the City Council, but not less than forty (40) hours per week.

Section 2-3-060080       Duties, Control and Discretion.
        (a)A. Generally. The City Manager shall administer the day-to-day operations of the City and its
services according to the policies and programs established by the City Council. The City Manager shall at

Title 2 Chapter 3
Page 1 of 4                                                                                  Return to Top
all times be under the control and supervision of the City Council and shall answer directly to the City
Council in all matters relating to the City, its employees, functions, relationships, activities and status.
(b)      Monthly Reports. The City Manager shall prepare and furnish to the City Council on a monthly
basis, or more often as requested by the City Council, a summary and status report setting out in adequate
detail such information as to inform the City Council on the status of the following:

                    (1)    Administrative matters;

                    (2)    City departments and agencies;

                    (3)    Personnel matters;

                    (4)    Fiscal and budgetary affairs;

                    (5)    Legal matters pending or asserted; and

                (6)      Any other matters requested by the City Council.
         (bc)B. Specific Duties. Subject to the limits set forth herein, the following duties and the authority
to perform them are hereby delegated to the City Manager.

                    (1)1. Administrative Officer. The City Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer
           of the City under the advice and consent of the City Council and subject to those powers
           specifically reserved for the Mayor by ordinance or State law.

                   (2)2. Personnel Administrator. The City Manager shall be the Personnel Administrator
           to whom all employees of the City shall report and shall be responsible for implementing and
           enforcing the “Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual”personnel policies of the City.

                 (3)3. Appoint and Remove Employees. Except as provided in 2-5-050 of this code,
        TtThe City Manager shall recommend to the Mayor and City Council the appointment of or removal
        of all appointed officers and department heads. the Fire Chief, Recorder, Treasurer, City Attorney
        and City Engineer, whose employment or appointment may be terminated only by the City Council.
        The City Manager shall recommend to the City Council the removal ofmay remove all appointed
        officers and department heads after first giving notice to the City Council whose employment may
        be terminated only by the City Council. The City Manager shall have authority to appoint and
        remove all other department heads with the advice and consent of the City Council. The City
        Manager shall have authority to appoint hire and remove all other City employees. The City
        Manager shall review the status and performance of any personnel being considered for discharge,
        transfer, or demotion from employment with the City.
, and make written recommendation concerning the appropriate action to be taken with respect thereto to
        the City Council.
                 (4)4. Signature Authority. The City Manager shall have the authority to sign all
        contracts on behalf of the City provided:



Title 2 Chapter 3
Page 2 of 4
                             (i)a.   The contract has been approved by the City Council, funds to be spent
                    under the contract have been specifically appropriated through the City’s budget process,
                    or the contract does not require the expenditure of City funds; and

                             (ii)b.   The contract does not involve the conveyance of any real property interest
                    of the City.

                    (5)5. Supervise Departments. The City Manager shall direct and supervise the
           administration of all City Departments, Offices and Agencies, except as otherwise provided by the
           City Council.

                    (6)6. Inventory Property. The City Manager or designee shall keep or cause to be kept a
           current inventory showing all real and personal property of the City and its location. The City
           Manager or designee shall be responsible for the care and custody of all such property, including
           equipment, buildings, parks and all other City property which is not by law assigned to some other
           officer or body for care and control.

                    (7)7. Purchasing and Claims. The City Manager or designee shall act as purchasing
           agent for the City, and as such shall implement and enforce all provisions of the ordinances of the
           City relating to purchasing. The City Manager or designee may compromise and settle any claim
           by and against the City if the payment in compromise is one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
           or less. The City Manager shall, on a periodic basis, advise the City Council concerning pending
           claims against the City and those which have been settled.

                   (8)8. Council Meetings. The City Manager shall should attend all meetings of the City
           Council with the right to take part in the discussion and to recommend to the City Council adoption
           of such measures as the City Manager may deem necessary or expedient, but not to vote.

                    (9)9. Budget Preparation. The City Manager shall oversee the City Budget Officer in
           preparation of the City budget in the event that the City Manager is not designated as the Budget
           Officer. The City Manager shall also ensure that all executive procedures and activities of the City
           are in compliance with the provisions of the Utah Uniform Municipal Fiscal Procedures Act.

                    (10)10. Review Contracts. The City Manager shall review and make recommendations to
           the City Council concerning all proposed contracts to which the City may be a party, and shall see
           that the terms of any contract to which the City is a party are fully performed by all parties thereto.

                    (11)11. Propose Plans and Programs. The City Manager shall propose plans and
           programs concerning the development, operation and needs of the City and submit such plans to
           the City Council to be approved and developed as policy.

                    (12)12. Implement Policy. The City Manager shall implement all policy changes and
           directives of the Mayor and the City Council through regularly scheduled staff meetings.



Title 2 Chapter 3
Page 3 of 4
                   (13)13. Management Controls. The City Manager shall set performance standards and
           exercise managerial control to ensure that the City government is functioning in the most efficient
           and effective manner.

                    (14)14. Organization. The City Manager shall recommend creation and organization of all
           necessary departments, divisions, bureaus and offices necessary for the government of the City to
           the City Council for its approval prior to implementation.

                    (15)15. Records. The City Manager shall examine the books, records, and official papers
           of the City's departments and offices.

                 (16)16. Emergencies. The City Manager shall notify the City Council and the Mayor of any
           emergency existing in any department or matter under his or her supervision.

                   (17)17. Additional Duties. The City Manager shall have such other powers and shall
           perform such other duties and obligations as may be required of him or her by state law or by
           ordinance, resolution, or policy of the City Council.

Section 2-3-090070         Limitations.

         (a)A. Other Employment. The City Manager shall not accept any outside employment in
addition to employment by the City without prior written approval of the City Council.

        (b)B. Powers of Mayor not Delegated. The legislative and judicial powers of the Mayor, his or
her position as chairman of the City Council, and any ex officio position he or she may hold, shall not be
delegated to the City Manager.

Section 2-3-100080          Acting City Manager. In the absence of the City Manager or because of his or
her inability or refusal to act, the City Council may appoint by majority vote a qualified person to serve as
Acting City Manager to perform and undertake the duties and responsibilities of the City Manager with such
authority as is vested in the office.




Title 2 Chapter 3
Page 4 of 4
Chapter 2-4 LEGISLATION

Sections:

2-4-010             Ordinances.
2-4-020             Resolutions.
2-4-030             Regulations.
2-4-040             Public Records.
2-4-050             Rules of Construction.
2-4-060             Constitutional Taking Issues.

Chapter 2-4 LEGISLATION

Section 2-4-010              Ordinances.

          (a)A. Legislative Power. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the City Council shall exercise its
legislative powers through ordinances.

         (b)B. Extent of Power. The City Council may pass any ordinance to regulate, require, prohibit, govern,
control or supervise any activity, business, conduct or condition authorized by law.

        (c)C. Form. The City Council shall ensure that aAny ordinance thatpassed by the City Council passes
shall contains the following, in substantially the following order and formEvery ordinance shall be in writing
before the vote is taken and shall contain and be in substantially the following order and form:

                    (1)1. A number;

                    (2)2. A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the ordinance;

                    (3)3. A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;

                    (4)4. An ordaining clause which states: "Be it ordained by the City Council of Draper City:";

                    (5)5. The body or subject of the ordinance;

                    (6)6. When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of the ordinance or a
            reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance which prescribes the fines and terms of
            imprisonment for the violation of a municipal ordinance;

                     (77.) When a penalty for a violation of the ordinance includes any possibility of imprisonment,
            a statement that the municipality is required, under Utah Code Annotated, as amended to provide
            for indigent defense services., as that term is defined in Utah Code Annotated 78B-22-102, as
            amended;

                    (78)8. A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the date when the
            ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as required by this Chapter;


Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 1 of 7
                    (89)9. A line for the signature of the Mayor or acting mayor to sign the ordinance;

                    (910)10. A place for the City Recorder to attest the ordinance and fix the seal of Draper City;
                    and

                  (1011)11. When applicable, a citation to provisions of the Draper City Code which are
            amended by the ordinance.

        (d)D. Improper Form. No ordinance shall be void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the
provisions of Section 2-4-010(c)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (1011) of this Chapter.

        (e)E. Effective Date. Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance, ordinances shall become effective
twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days after final passage by the City Council,
whichever is sooner.

        (f)F. Signed. Ordinances passed or enacted by the City Council shall be signed by the Mayor, or if
he or she is absent, by the Mayor pro tempore or by a quorum of the Council Members, before taking effect.

          (g)G. Recording. Ordinances passed or enacted by the City Council shall be recorded by the City
Recorder in a book used exclusively for that purpose, before taking effect. The City Recorder shall give each
ordinance a number, if the City Council has not already done so, and shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and the date of publication or posting of the ordinance, as required.

            (h)H.   Publication.

                     (1)1. All ordinances, except those enacted pursuant to Utah Code Ann.Annotated
            10-3-706 through 10-3-710, as amended, shall be deposited in the office of the City Recorder and a
            short summary of the ordinance shall be published at least once in a newspaper published within
            Draper City, or if there is no newspaper published in Draper City, in a newspaper of general
            circulation within the city; or a complete copy of the ordinance shall be posted in three public places
            within Draper City, before taking effect.

                     (2)2. Any ordinance, code, or book, other than the state code, relating to building or safety
            standards, municipal functions, administration, control, or regulations, may be adopted and shall take
            effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least one
            copy has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the City Recorder prior to
            the adoption of the ordinance by the City Council.

                     (3)3. Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal functions,
            administration, control, or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
            publication or posting, if reference is made to the state code.

                     (4)4. The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the manner provided
            in this section.

       (i)I. Prima facie evidence. The record and certificate prepared by the City Recorder, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and publication or posting of the

Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 2 of 7
ordinance or codification. In addition, the ordinances printed and published by the authority of the City
Council, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and legal publication of such ordinances, as
of the dates mentioned in the publication, in all courts and administrative proceedings.

         (j)J. Proved under seal. The contents of all Draper City ordinances, the dates of passage, and the
date of publication or posting, may be proved by the certification of the City Recorder under the seal of Draper
City.

         (k)K. Penalty. The City Council may provide a penalty for the violation of any municipal ordinance by
a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Ann.Annotated 76-3-301, as
amended, and/or by a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor term of
imprisonment under Utah Code Ann.Annotated 76-3-204, as amended. The City Council may also impose a
civil penalty for the unauthorized use of municipal property, including, but not limited to, the use of parks,
streets, and other public grounds or equipment. Rules of civil procedure shall be substantially followed.

         (l)L. Liability. An officer of Draper City shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where he or she
relied on or enforced an ordinance he or she reasonably believed to be a valid ordinance. It shall be a defense
to any action for punitive damages that the official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he or
she enforced an ordinance on advice of legal counsel.

Section 2-4-020             Resolutions.

        (a)A. Administrative Powers. Unless otherwise required by law, the City Council may exercise all
administrative powers by resolution.

        (b)B. Form. Any resolution passed by the City Council shall be in a form and contain sections
substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.

       (c)C. Effective Date. Resolutions may take effect on passage or at a later date as the City Council
may determine, but resolutions may not become effective more than three months from the date of passage.

            (d)D. Publication. Resolutions need not be published or posted.

         (e)E. Filing. Resolutions shall be retained on file in the records of Draper City, but need not be
codified.

            (f)F. Limitation. No punishment, fine, or forfeiture may be imposed by resolution.

        (g)G. Proved under seal. The contents and dates of passage of all Draper City Resolutions may be
proved by the certification of the City Recorder under the seal of Draper City.

Section 2-4-030             Regulations.

        (a)A. Authorization. When and to the extent authorized by ordinance, an administrative officer of the
City may promulgate regulations governing the administration of the City.



Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 3 of 7
         (b)B. Defined. A regulation is any administrative rule, policy, procedure, or decision of the City which
is or can be applied to recurrent situations or problems, or which is intended to govern one or more activities
or services of the City for an extensive period of time.

         (c)C. Requirements. In promulgating a regulation, the administrative officer shall substantially comply
with the following:

                    (1)1. Written. The regulation shall be in writing.

                    (2)2. Consistency. The regulation shall be consistent with the Draper City Code and other
            provisions of law.

                   (3)3. Not Arbitrary or Capricious. The regulation, in whole or in part, shall not be arbitrary or
            and capricious.

                   (4)4. City Manager Approval. The regulation shall be submitted to the City Manager and
            must be approved by him or her.

                     (5)5. City Attorney. After approval by the City Manager, the regulation shall be submitted to
            the City Attorney for review and comment.

                     (6)6. City Council. After approval of the City Manager and review by the City Attorney, the
            regulation must be incorporated by reference into a resolution of the City Council. Such resolution
            must be duly passed and adopted by the City Council.

         (d)D. Ratification. In the event any act performed or position taken by a City official on behalf of the
City is called into question for failure to comply with the requirements of subsection (c)C. of this Section, the
City Council may ratify such act or position by resolution, in which event such act shall be deemed to have
been performed and such position shall be deemed to have been taken pursuant to a valid regulation.

            (e)E. Effect. Regulations adopted shall have the force and effect of resolutions adopted by the City
Council.

        (f)F. Proved under seal. The contents and dates of passage of all Draper City Regulations may be
proved by the certification of the City Recorder under the seal of Draper City.

Section 2-4-040         Public Records. The ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and any other books,
records, accounts or documents of Draper City shall be kept at the office of the City Recorder. Approved
copies shall be open and available to the public during regular business hours for examination and copying
pursuant to the Draper City Government Records Access and Management ActOrdinance.

Section 2-4-050          Rules of Construction. Unless expressly provided to the contrary, the following
rules shall govern construction and interpretation of the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of Draper
City:

         (a)A. Amendment or Repeal. Unless otherwise specifically provided, any amendment or repeal shall
not affect any right which has accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding

Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 4 of 7
commenced under or by virtue of the provision amended or repealed, nor shall any repeal have the effect of
reviving any provision previously repealed or superseded.

        (b)B. Severability. If any part or provision of an ordinance, resolution, or regulation is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions and all provisions,
clauses, and words of the ordinance, resolution, or regulation shall be severable.

         (c)C. Titles and Headings. Titles and headings form no part of the ordinances, resolutions, or
regulations, have no binding or interpretive effect, and shall not alter the legal effect of any part of the
provisions for any reason, unless otherwise provided by law.

         (d)D. Common and Specific Usage. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common use and understanding of the language; however, the technical words and phrases
and such other words and phrases that have acquired a particular meaning or which are specified as having
a particular meaning shall be construed and understood according to such particular meaning.

        (e)E. Liberal Construction. All provisions of the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of Draper
City shall be liberally construed according to the import of their terms to promote justice and to effect the
objects of the law.

         (f)F. Gender and Number. Unless otherwise indicated from the context of the ordinance, resolution,
or regulation, all words in the singular shall include the plural and all words used in the masculine gender
shall extend and apply to the feminine gender and vice-versa.

       (g)G. Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
such would be a reasonable interpretation of the provision.

        (h)H. City. The word "City", when capitalized, shall be understood to refer to Draper City, unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.


Section 2-4-060              Constitutional Taking Issues.

         (a)A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to provide advisory guidelines for the City to assist the
City in identifying actions that involve physical taking or exaction of private real property that may have
constitutional taking issues.

            (b)B. Definitions. As used herein:

                     (1)1. "Constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the physical taking or exaction
            of private real property by the City that might require compensation to a private real property owner
            under:

                             (i)a. The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States;

                             (ii)b. Article I, Section 22 of the Utah Constitution; or


Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 5 of 7
                            (iii) Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of private
                    real property by a governmental entity.

        (c)C. Guidelines. The following guidelines shall be considered by the City when taking any action
that might result in the physical taking or exaction of private real property.

                   (1)1. Identification. The City should review the following to determine and identify whether a
            proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues.

                    (2)2. Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private property?

                    (3)3. Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant an easement to
            the City?

                    (4)4. Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable uses of the
            property?

                    (5)5. Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's economic interest?

                    (6)6. Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?

         (d)D. Analysis. If the City determines that a governmental action involves constitutional taking issues,
the proposed action should be reviewed by the City to analyze the possible taking and to determine the action
to be taken. In reviewing the proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed.

                    (1)1. The affect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the private property;

                    (2)2. The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;

                    (3)3. Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the City's lawful objectives and
            reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;

                    (4)4. The cost to the City for payment of compensation if a taking is determined;

                    (5)5. The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential taking; and

                   (6)6. If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the impact of any
            proposed development.

         (e)E. Appeals. Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a physical
taking or exaction by the City, pursuant to a final and authoritative decision or action of the City, may appeal
the City's decision or action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for the appeal
in the City Recorder's Office within thirty (30) days from the date of the City's decision or action. The City
Council or its designee shall hear all evidence regarding the appeal and render its decision and findings in
writing within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the City fails to hear and decide the
appeal within fourteen (14) days, the City's decision or action is presumed to be approved.


Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 6 of 7
         (f)F. Limitations. The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand nor limit the scope of the City's liability for a constitutional taking. The City shall have no legal liability
to any person, firm or entity of any nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the City for
failure to comply with the provisions of this Chapter. The private property owner need not file the appeal
authorized by this Section before bringing an action in any court to adjudicate claims that are eligible for
appeal. A property owner’s failure to appeal the action of the City does not constitute, and may not be
interpreted as constituting, a failure to exhaust administrative remedies or as a bar to bringing legal action.




Title 2 Chapter 4
Page 7 of 7
Chapter 2-5 APPOINTED OFFICERS

Sections:

2-5-010             Office Creation.
2-5-020             Vacancies.
2-5-030             City Recorder.
2-5-040             City Treasurer.
2-5-050             Repealed (Ordinance 350)
2-5-060 050         City Attorney.

Chapter 2-5 APPOINTED OFFICERS

Section 2-5-010        Office Creation. The City Council may create any office deemed necessary for the
government of Draper City and shall, by resolution or ordinance, prescribe the power and duties to be
performed by appointed officials.

Section 2-5-020            Vacancies.       The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may
appoint and fill vacancies in all appointed offices provided for by law or ordinance. All appointed officers shall
continue in office until their successors are appointed and qualified.

Section 2-5-030            City Recorder.

       (a)A. Appointment. On or before the first Monday in February following a municipal election, tThe
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council shall appoint a qualified person to the office of City
Recorder.

       (b)B. Office. The City Recorder shall occupy an office in the City Hall or at some other place
convenient thereto as the City Council may direct.

         (c)C. City Auditor. As allowed by State law, the City has appointed the Finance Director to perform
the duties of such office, including the preparation and presentation to the City Council of monthly summary
financial reports and quarterly detail financial reports prepared in the manner prescribed in the Uniform
Accounting Manual for Utah Cities.

         (d)D. Corporate Seal. The City Recorder shall keep the corporate seal. When certified by the City
Recorder under the Corporate Seal, copies of all papers filed in the City Recorder's office and transcripts
from all records of the City Council shall be admissible in all courts as originals.

        (e)E. Meetings of City Council. The City Recorder shall attend the meetings as assigned and keep
the record of the proceedings of the City Council.

         (f)F. Actions of City Council. The City Recorder shall record all ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations passed by the City Council in the manner provided in Section 2-4-010.

        (g)G. Contracts. The City Recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the City or to
which the City is a party and shall maintain a properly indexed record of all such contracts.


Title 2 Chapter 5
Page 1 of 3
          (h)H. Elections and Appointments. The City Recorder shall manage all municipal election procedures
and requirements as provided in the Utah Code Annotated, as amended, and shall keep a record of all
persons elected or appointed to any office within the City, including the date of appointment or election, term
of office, date of death, resignation, or removal, and name of person appointed to fill any vacancy.

            (i)I. Limitations. The City Recorder shall not serve as the City Treasurer.

        (j)J. Records of the City. The City Recorder shall keep all the books, records, accounts and
documents of the City at the Recorder's Office. Such records shall be open for public inspection pursuant to
the provisions of the Draper City Government Records Access and Management ActOrdinance.

        (k)K. Additional Duties. The City Recorder shall perform such other and further duties as the City
Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive.

Section 2-5-040              City Treasurer.

       (a)A. Appointment. On or before the first Monday in February following a municipal election, tThe
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council shall appoint a qualified person to the office of City
Treasurer.

         (b)B. Bond Required. Before commencing his or her duties, the City Treasurer shall execute and file
with the City Recorder an official bond as required by Section 2-6-106.

        (c)C. Custodian. The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money, bonds, or other securities
belonging to the City.

        (d)D. Collections. The City Treasurer shall collect and receive all monies payable to the City,
including taxes, assessments, licenses, fines, forfeitures, service charges, fees and other revenues of the
City. The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all monies received hereunder and shall promptly
deposit all such monies in the appropriate bank accounts of the City. The City Treasurer shall keep all money
belonging to the City separate and distinct from his or her own money.

         (e)E. Receipts. The City Treasurer shall give or cause to be given to every person paying money to
the City Treasury, a receipt or other evidence of payment therefore, specifying the date of payment and the
account paid. The City Treasurer shall file the duplicate of such receipt or evidence of payment in the office
of the City Recorder.

          (f)F. Checks. The City Treasurer shall sign all checks prepared by the accounts payable clerk and
shall, prior to affixing said signature, determine or cause to be determined that sufficient funds are on deposit
in the appropriate bank account of the City to honor such check.

       (g)G. Warrants. The City Treasurer shall pay all warrants in the order in which presented and as
money becomes available for payment thereof in the appropriate funds of the City. The City Treasurer shall
make provisions for the payment of all warrants issued prior to signing any subsequently issued checks.




Title 2 Chapter 5
Page 2 of 3
        (h)H. Special Assessments. The City Treasurer shall receive all monies received by the City on any
special assessment and shall apply the payments thereof to the cost of the improvement for which the
assessment was made.

        (i)I. Accounting. The City Treasurer shall keep an accurate and detailed accounting of all
transactions, receipts, collections, disbursements and other matters within the Treasurer's charge as
provided by state law or as the City may by ordinance or resolution direct.

            (j)J. Limitations. The City Treasurer shall not serve as the City Recorder.

        (k)K. Additional Duties. The City Treasurer shall perform such other and further duties as the City
Council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive.

Section 2-5-050              REPEALED.

Section 2-5-060 050          City Attorney.

         (a)A. Appointment. The City Attorney shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Mayor upon
recommendation by the City Manager with the advice and consent of the City Council. The City may contract
with or retain an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Utah. The City may make a separate contract
with an attorney or attorneys for the performance of criminal prosecutorial legal services. All attorneys under
contract with the City shall communicate with each other as necessary to properly correlate their efforts.

         (b)B. Duties. The City Attorney shall act as legal advisor to the City in all matters pertaining to
contracts with or by the City or questions of legality arising out of any law, ordinance or otherwise. The City
Attorney shall appear on behalf of the City in all suits at law or in equity in which the City is a party, and shall
prosecute or defend them, as the case may be, in all courts until they are finally disposed of. He or she shall
advise all City officers in relation to their official duties, prepare and draft all such ordinances, resolutions and
regulations as the City Council or City Manager may from time to time request and perform such other duties
as the ordinances of the City and the general laws require or as the City Council may direct. The City Attorney
shall attend meetings of the City Council and other meetings of the City when requested to do so. The City
Attorney may, with the consent of the City Council, retain special counsel on matters pertaining to the legal
affairs of the City if the same is deemed necessary and desirable and such special counsel shall be
compensated by the City. The City Attorney shall, when requested to do so, furnish written opinions on
subjects submitted by the City Council or by the City Manager.

        (c)C. Additional Duties. The City Attorney shall perform such other duties as the City Council may
provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive.




Title 2 Chapter 5
Page 3 of 3
Chapter 2-6            TAKING OFFICE

Sections:

2-6-010                Eligibility for Mayor and Council Members
2-6-020                Election of Mayor and Council Members
2-6-025                Campaign Financial Disclosure
2-6-030                Term of Office for Mayor and Council Members
2-6-040                Vacancies in Office of Mayor or Council Member
2-6-050                Oath of Office
2-6-060                Bond
2-6-070                Salaries
2-6-080                Failure to Qualify for Office
2-6-090                Duties and Powers Defined
2-6-100                Official Neglect or Misconduct
2-6-110                Transfer of Records

Section 2-6-010                Eligibility for Mayor and Council Members

        A. Chosen by Voters. The mayorMayor and council members shall be elected by the registered
voters of Draper City.

       B. Residency and Registration Requirements: An individual may become a candidate for any elected
municipal office if:


                       1.      the individual is a registered voter; and

                    2.        the individual has resided within the municipality in which the individual seeks to
            hold elective office for the 12 consecutive months immediately before the date of the election; or

                 3.       the territory in which the individual resides was annexed into the municipality, the
         individual has resided within the annexed territory or the municipality the 12 consecutive months
         immediately before the date of the election.
                   Resident and Registered voter. Any person elected to the office of mayor or council
         member must be a resident of and a registered voter in Draper City.
         C.      Each elected officer of Draper City shall be a registered voter in Draper City and maintain a
principal place of residence within the municipality city during the officer’s term of office. An elected office is
automatically vacant if the elected officer:

                    1. establishes a principal place of residence outside the city;

                    2. resides at a secondary residence outside the city for a continuous period of more than sixty
                       (60) days while still maintaining a principal place of residence within the city;

                    3. is absent from the city for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days; or


Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 1
                    4. fails to respond within thirty (30) days to a request from the county clerk or lieutenant
                       governor seeking information to determine the officer’s residency.

        CD. Exceptions. An elected officer may be absent from the city or establish and reside at a secondary
residence outside the city while still maintaining a principle place of residence in the city, if:

                       1.      the City Council consents by a majority vote after taking public comment regarding:

                               a. whether the City Council should give consent; and

                               b. the length of time to which the City Council should consent; and

                       2.      Length of absence or secondary residence as determined by the City Council does
                               not exceed one (1) year.


                       i.      1.       If an elected officer obtains the consent of the city council within sixty (60)
                               days of establishing a secondary residence outside the city, the elected officer may
                               reside at a secondary residence outside the city while still maintaining a principal
                               place of residence within the city for a continuous period of up to one year during
                               the officer’s term of office. Consent and length of time are determined by a majority
                               vote by council after taking public comment.

                    2.       If an elected officer obtains the consent of the city council within sixty (60) days of
            being absent from the city, the elected officer may be absent from the city for a continuous period of
            up to one year during the officer’s term of office. Consent and length of absence are determined by
            a majority vote by council after taking public comment.

         DE. City Employee. Neither the mMayor nor a member of the City Council shall, upon taking office,
be an employee of Draper City. Any employee of Draper City shall be entitled to run for elected office but, if
elected, shall comply with the provisions of Draper City Municipal Code prior to taking office.

Section 2-6-020                Election of Mayor and Council Members

        A. Elected. The mayorMayor and council members shall be elected in an at-large municipal election
held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November, of each odd-numbered year as provided in Utah
Code Annotated 10-3-201title 10, chapter 3.,as, as amended.

         B. Notice of Election. On or before May 1 in a year in which there is a municipal general election,
the city recorder shall publish a notice that identifies the municipal offices to be voted on in the municipal
election and the dates for filing a declaration of candidacy. The city recorder shall publish the notice on the
Utah Public Notice Website and in at least one of the following ways:

                       1. at city hall;




Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 2
                        2. in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least once a week for two consecutive
                           weeks in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, section 45-1-101, et seq.asAnnotated
                           20A-9-203, as amended;

                        3. in the city newsletter;

                        4. on the city’s website; or

                        5. with a city utility enterprise fund customer’s bill.

         C. Procedure. The municipal elections and primary elections for mayorMayor and council members
shall be conducted in the manner provided for in Title 20A of the Utah Code Annotated ,, as amended.section
20A-1-201, et seq.

         D. Districts. The city councilCity Council, for purposes of an election, may combine two or more
regular Salt Lake County voting precincts into one Draper City voting precinct for purposes of an election by
designating the location and address of that combined voting precinct. If only two precincts are combined,
the polling place shall be within the combined precinct or within one-half mile of the boundaries of the
combined voting precinct. If more than two precincts are combined, the polling place shall be as near as
practical to the middle of the combined precinct.

        E. Primary Elections. No primary elections shall be held for the offices of mayor or city councilCity
Council members and all openings for such offices shall be filled at the November general municipal election
of Draper City, unless:

                    1. the number of candidates exceeds twice the number of offices to be filled, or

                    2. a primary election is otherwise required by law, in which cases a primary election shall be
                       held in the manner provided in Utah Code Annotated 20A-9-404, as amended. . Utah Code
                       Annotated section 20A-1-201, et seq.

2-6-025          Campaign Finance StatementDisclosure.           Each candidate for elected office shall
comply with the campaign finance disclosure requirements found in Utah Code Annotated, as amended.state
code.

Section 2-6-030           Term of Office for Mayor and Council Members. The elected mayorMayor and
council members shall begin their term of office at 12:00 noon on the first Monday in January following their
election, and shall continue in office for four (4) years thereafter and until their respective successors are
chosen and qualified, except in case of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification from office.

Section 2-6-040                 Vacancies in Office of Mayor or Council Member.

         A. If any vacancy occurs in the office of mayorMayor or council member of the city, the city
councilCity Council shall appoint a registered voter in the city who meets the qualifications for office described
in state code to fill the unexpired term of the vacated office.

            B. Before acting to fill the vacancy, the city councilCity Council shall:

Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 3
                   1. Give public notice of the vacancy at least two weeks before the council meets to fill the
            vacancy;

                      2. Identify in the notice the date, time and place of the meeting where the vacancy will be
            filled; the name and contact information of the person to whom an individual interested in being
            considered to fill the vacancy shall submit their name for consideration and the deadline for
            submission.

                   3. In an open meeting, interview each individual whose name is submitted for consideration,
            and who meets the qualifications for office, regarding the individual’s qualifications.

        C. If, for any reason, the city councilCity Council does not fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days after
the day on which the vacancy occurs, the city councilCity Council shall fill the vacancy from among the names
that have been submitted. The two individuals having the highest number of votes of the city councilCity
Council after a first vote is taken shall appear come before the city councilCity Council and the council shall
vote again. The Mayor shall break any tie pursuant to 2-2-020(b)(1).

       D. If neither candidate receives a majority vote of the city councilCity Council at that time, the
vacancy shall be filled by lot in the presence of the city councilCity Council.

         E. A vacancy in the office of mayorMayor or city councilCity Council member shall be filled by an
interim appointment, followed by an election to fill a two (2) year term, if:

                    1. The vacancy occurs, or a letter of resignation is received, by the mayorMayor at least
            fourteen (14) days before the deadline for filing for election in an odd-numbered year; and

                    2. Two (2) years of the vacated term will remain after the first Monday of January following
            the next municipal election.

                    3. The city councilCity Council shall follow the voting procedures outlined in 2-6-040 (B), –
(C).

Section 2-6-050             Oath of Office.

         A. Required: Before entering on their respective duties, all officers of Draper City, whether elected
or appointed, shall take the constitutional oath of office as set forth in article IV, section 10 of the cConstitution
of Utah.

         B. Time: Elected officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on the first
Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is practical. Appointed officers shall take
their oath of office at any time before entering on their duties.

        C. Administered: The oath of office shall be administered by the city recorder, any judge, or any
notary public.



Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 4
         D. Filed: All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder, except that of the city recorder which
shall be filed with the city treasurer.

         E. Failure to Comply: No official act of any officer shall be invalid for the reason that he or she failed
to take the oath of office.

Section 2-6-060              Bond.

         A.         Required: In addition to the requirements of Draper City Municipal Code 2-6-060(B), the city
shall either:
                      1.       Execute a corporate surety bond or maintain a blanket bond with good and sufficient
            sureties payable to Draper City for the faithful performance of the duties of elected officials, appointed
            officers, and employees as required by state laws and the ordinances of Draper City; or
                      2.       Maintain an insurance policy to ensure the faithful performance of the duties of
            elected officials, appointed officers, and employees of Draper City.

        B. Treasurer's Bond: The city shall maintain a treasurer’s bond set at an amount not less than that
established by the state money management council.

            C. Filed: All bonds or insurance policies of the city shall be filed with the city recorder.

        D. Approval of Bonds: The bonds of Council members, if required, shall be approved by the Mayor,
and the bond of the Mayor, if required, shall be approved by the City Council, at the first meeting of the City
Council in January following a Municipal election.

        E. Premium Charge: The premium charged for any required corporate surety or blanket bond or
insurance policy for an elected official, appointed officer, or employee of the City shall be paid by Draper City.

         F. Additional Bonds: The City Council may at any time require additional bonds, increased bond
amounts, or increased insurance policy coverage limits under this section by resolution or ordinance. Bond
amounts or coverage limits may exceed those established by the State Money Management Council pursuant
to State Code.

2-6-070             Salaries.

          A. Generally: Elected and appointed officers of the city shall receive such compensation for their
services as the mayorMayor and city councilCity Council may fix by ordinance pursuant to the procedure set
forth in subsection B of this section..

        B. Adopting, Changing or Amending Compensation: Upon its own motion, the city councilCity
Council may review or consider the compensation of any officer or officers of the city or a salary schedule
applicable to any officer or officers of the city for the purpose of determining whether it should be adopted,
changed or amended. In the event the city councilCity Council decides that the compensation or
compensation schedules should be adopted, changed or amended, it shall set a time and place of a public
hearing at which all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time, place
and purpose of the meeting shall be published at least seven (7) days prior thereto by a publication in at least
one issue of a newspaper published in Salt Lake County and generally circulated in Draper City and on the

Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 5
Utah Public Notice Website. After the conclusion of the public hearing, the mayorMayor and city councilCity
Council may enact an ordinance fixing, changing, or amending the compensation of any elective or appointed
officer of the City or adopting a compensation schedule applicable to any officer or officers.

            C. Monthly Compensation: The compensation of all city officers shall be paid at least monthly.

Section 2-6-080              Failure to Qualify for Office. Whenever any person duly elected to any office of
the city fails to qualify for such office within sixty (60) days after the date of beginning of the term of office for
which he or she was elected, such office shall thereupon become vacant and shall be filled as provided by
law. Whenever the bond of any officer of the city is canceled, revoked, annulled, or otherwise becomes void
or of no effect, without another proper bond being given so that continuance of bonded protection is afforded,
the office of such officer shall thereupon become vacant and shall be filled as provided by law.

Section 2-6-090           Duties and Powers Defined. The duties, powers and privileges of all elected and
appointed officers of the city shall be defined by the city councilCity Council pursuant to state law.

Section 2-6-100             Official Neglect or Misconduct. In any caseIf, an officer of the City willfully omits
to perform any duty, or willfully and corruptly commits oppression, malconduct, misfeasance, or malfeasance
in office, the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor, shall be removed from office, and is not eligible for
any city office thereafter.

Section 2-6-110            Transfer of Records. In any caseIf, an officer of the City willfully omits to perform
any duty, or willfully and corruptly commits oppression, malconduct, misfeasance, or malfeasance in office,
the person is guilty of a class A misdemeanor, shall be removed from office, and is not eligible for any city
office thereafter.




Title 2 Chapter 6
Page 6
