Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                  Planning comment
Sent:                                  Thursday, June 11, 2020 4:44 PM
To:                                    Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                               Fw: tonights zone change meeting




From: MIke Bowcut <mbbowcut@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2020 4:42 PM
To: Planning comment
Subject: tonights zone change meeting

My name is Mike Bowcut
and my family lives at 757 East Meadow Wood Dr (11705 South)Draper Ut. We have lived there since 1991 and the reason we
moved there was because of the rural feeling, the horse properties, the farms that used to be in the area and the people in the area
etc.
Meadow Wood Dr was hardly even a thru street and now we feel like we live on a quarter mile drag strip.the loss of the farm land
that has been gobbled up by commercial development an the influx of people has us feeling boxed in and we absolutely hate it.
when we moved to Draper we were told that the land to the South of us would never be developed because it was a dedicated wet
land but in three years there was a master plan for 600 homes to be built. The farm house that used to be on the corner of 700 East
and Meadow Wood Dr is now occupied by two large 40 foot tall office buildings and that land that is directly to the North of us is
parking lots and office buildings as well as a assisted living facility. since all of these changes as well as TRAX being so close we have
been subject to all kinds of challenges. Having said that we are apposed to the zone change to commercial however we are even
more against high density housing. We express our concern at the type of building that would be built on the property and hope that
as long term residents our input would at least be heard and taken seriously, any response would be appreciated
Thank you for your time
 Mike Bowcut




                                                                    1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          Planning comment
Sent:                          Thursday, June 11, 2020 12:12 PM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                       Fw: Questions for Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment




From: Jon <jon@canasianmedia.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2020 10:19 AM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Questions for Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment

Dear Committee,

1. Has a full environmental impact study been done for the parcel in question?

2. As a homeowner living on the boundary adjacent to the parcel (in Sunset Ponds), construction over the
waterway/drainage concerns me as to how the waterway will be diverted.

In the case of heavy rainfall or other circumstances that would have normally drained through the parcel, the
concern is that the water will be diverted onto my property, or saturate or destabilize the land below my
property.

3. In the case of damage, or adverse circumstances affecting my property as a result of new construction on
the parcel, what legal recourse can be taken against the city, county, and developers?

4. As there is a treeline on the boundary between the parcel and my property providing privacy to my home
and bedrooms, will the developers leave that treeline in place?

5. On the boundary closest to my property (in Sunset Ponds) will there be a parking lot or building built there?
The concern is noise and privacy.

6. In the case of excessive noise during and after construction is completed, what legal recourse can be taken
against the city, county, and developers?



Thank you for your time and consideration.

Jonathan Howe




                                                       1
--
Jon Howe I Canasian Media I T: 805.478.0379 I jon@canasianmedia.com I www.canasianmedia.com


This e-mail, the files transmitted with It, and the sender of this email are the property of Canasian Media and/or its affiliates. This e-mail is
confidential, and is intended solely for use of the individual or entity to whom this e-mail is addressed, If you are not one of the named
recipient(s) or otherwise have reason to believe that you have received this message in error, please notify the sender at
jon@canasianmedia.com, delete this message from your computer, destroy your computer immediately, forget all that you have seen, and
turn yourself over to the proper authorities. Any other use, retention, observation, dissemination, recollection, forwarding, printing, viewing,
copying, or unauthorized memorization of this e-mail without the express written consent of Major League Baseball is strictly prohibited. The
contents of this email are not intended to be taken literally. Void where prohibited by law. Offer not valid in Rhode Island, Guam and the
Xinghua province in China. Do not eat - external use only. Cash value= 1/20th of one cent. Standard text messaging rates may apply. All
rights reserved.




                                                                        2
From:            ljessop426@gmail.com
To:              Amie Salazar
Subject:         Rezoning
Date:            Thursday, June 11, 2020 5:06:48 PM


Will there be a limit on the height and size of the commercial building?
Will there be a required buffer between the commercial building and the residential subdivision
(Sunset Ponds)?
Will the junk Chinese Elm trees be removed and other trees planted in an area between the
commercial building and the residential subdivision (Sunset Ponds)?


Lori Jessop
Ljessop426@gmail.com
(801)573-9878
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                Planning comment
Sent:                                Thursday, June 11, 2020 9:31 AM
To:                                  Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                             Fw: Holmes Homes Office Land Use Map Ammendment




From: Brenda Porter <brenda.porter@juno.com>
Sent: Wednesday, June 10, 2020 1:16 PM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Holmes Homes Office Land Use Map Ammendment

Jennifer Jastremsky,

I am concerned about the proposed change from residential agricultural zoning to neighborhood commercial zoning at
approximately 11743 South 700 East. My House is approximately 20 feet away and backs up to this property.

My concerns include:

1- more traffic congestion, with the addition of the tracks Station a few years ago 700 East now backs up almost to 11400 South. Plus
the additional development that continues on 700 East has also contributed to congestion with only two lanes on 700 East.

2- Height of proposed buildings and closeness to property line.

3- Lighting shining into bedroom windows.

Thank you for your time and consideration,

Brenda Porter
761 East Sunset Ponds Drive
Draper, Ut 84020
801-598-3948



Sent from my iPhone




                                                                  1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                Planning comment
Sent:                                Thursday, June 11, 2020 12:12 PM
To:                                  Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                             Fw: Questions for zoom meeting tonight-Sunset Ponds HOA




From: Julianne Ross <julianneross@hotmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2020 11:18 AM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Questions for zoom meeting tonight-Sunset Ponds HOA

The questions I’m going to submit are: 1. where will the building be placed
2. how close to the property line will it be?
3. Do you have a proposed building plan and plat map you can show us?

Thanks,
Julianne Parker

Sent from my iPhone




                                                                  1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                 Planning comment
Sent:                                 Thursday, June 11, 2020 2:30 PM
To:                                   Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                              Fw: Tonight’s meeting




From: Linda Valline <lindavalline@icloud.com>
Sent: Thursday, June 11, 2020 2:15 PM
To: Planning comment
Subject: Tonight’s meeting

My name is Linda Valline and I have lived at 11719 south and 700 east since 1980, consequently during that time I have seen many
changes.
Architecture can change a neighborhood for better or worse.
Office buildings on the East side of 700 (my side) appear to be residential in design.
Office buildings on the west side of 700 East appear to be industrial in design.
I realize my personal opinion will have little effect on your decision, however it is my sincere hope that your final vote would be on
the side of residential looking office buildings and with a possibility of keeping my neighborhood a neighborhood if only in
appearance.
Thank you for listening,
Linda Valline.



Sent from my iPhone




                                                                   1
