                                         Development Review Committee
                                             1020 East Pioneer Road
                                               Draper, UT 84020
                                                 April 13, 2020

To:                Draper Planning Commission
                   Business Date: April 23, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2) – Final Subdivision Plat Request
         Application No.:  SUBD-963-2020
         Applicant:        Armando Alvarez
         Project Location: 644 East 12225 South
         Current Zoning:   O-R (Office Residential)
         Acreage:          2.48 Acres (Approximately 108,028 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Subdivision in the O-R (Office Residential) zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a final subdivision plat for approximately 2.48 acres located
on the North side of 12225 South, at approximately 644 East. The Planning Commission approved a site
plan for 17 townhomes on the subject property on June 13, 2019, and approved the Preliminary Plat on
February 27, 2020. The entire project is encompassing two (2) undeveloped parcels that are accessed
from an existing private lane off 12300 south. An aerial map have been included as Exhibit B of this
report.

The subject properties are part of the Midas Creek approved Site Plan, which includes the first phase of
Victoria Woods. This site plan was approved in 2007 by the Planning Commission and consisted of 50
residential units on 5.71 acres, yielding a total residential density for the development of 8.8 units per
acre. The O-R (Office-Residential) zone placed on the subject properties have a density cap of 12
residential units per acre. As such, the current site plan can have only 18 residential unit’s maximum
before it exceeds the density cap for the entire Midas Creek/Victoria Woods Site Plan Area.

The two parcels that are part of this application:
    1. 28-30-426-034-0000
    2. 28-30-426-026-0000
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for Neighborhood Commercial
land use designation for the subject properties. This category is characterized as follows:




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                       App #SUBD-963-2020
Final Subdivision Plat                                 1
The properties have been assigned the O-R zoning designation. Development in this zone is composed of
certain developments used primarily to provide administrative, clerical, and professional offices of a
residential scale and character, to serve nearby residential and commercial areas, as well as the city as a
whole. Secondarily, this district provides for medium-high density residential use (0 to 12 du/ac), see
DCMC: 9-11-080(A). The Land Use Map and Zoning Map have been included as Exhibits C and D of
this report.

The O-R zone is designed to be a transitional zone, and should be used to buffer low density residential
uses from more intense land uses, districts, and heavily traveled transportation routes. The property
development standards, while strict in order to protect adjacent low density residential uses, are designed
to be flexible in design, and to allow housing constructed within this district to incorporate its own
protection from more intense adjacent uses. The subject area is surrounded by the following zoning
designations:

North: R3 (Single-family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) RA2 (Residential Agricultural,
20,000 square foot lot minimum)
South: RA2
West: CSD-DD (Day Dairy Commercial Special District)
East: O-R

Subdivision Layout. Parcel 283-042-6034-0000 will have four (4) Townhomes and Parcel 283-042-6026-
000 will have the additional thirteen (13) townhomes. The approved Site Plan shows a private lane that




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                      App #SUBD-963-2020
Final Subdivision Plat                               2
accesses the subject properties with standard parking stalls and individual townhome units that vary from
approximately 1,500 to 1,800 square feet in size. The plat is included as Exhibit E of this report.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a final subdivision plat request is
found in Section 17-4-060 of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review
for such requests as:

              Within a reasonable time following the recommended approval of the final plat by the Zoning
              Administrator, the final plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its review and
              consideration. A courtesy notice may be provided for the meeting in accordance with section
              17-1-085 of this title, but is not required. The Planning Commission shall not be bound by the
              recommendations of the Zoning Administrator and may set its own conditions and
              requirements consistent with this title. If the Planning Commission determines that the final
              plat is in conformity with the requirements of this title, other applicable ordinances, and any
              reasonable conditions as recommended by the City's staff and Zoning Administrator or on the
              Planning Commission's own initiative, and that the Planning Commission is satisfied with the
              final plat, it may approve the final plat. If the Planning Commission determines that the final
              plat is not in conformity with this title or other applicable ordinances or any reasonable
              conditions imposed, it may disapprove the final plat specifying the reasons for such
              disapproval. No final plat shall have any force or effect unless the same has been approved by
              the Planning Commission and signed by the Mayor and City Recorder. (Ord. 1332, 7-10-
              2018)


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Final
Plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Final Plat submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon Associates LLC., in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the geotechnical and
geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Final Plat. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering,
LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Final Plat
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning Commission
review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                       App #SUBD-963-2020
Final Subdivision Plat                                3
         1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                   of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
         3.        That all previous conditions of site plan approval remain in full force and are continually
                   satisfied to completion, to include all previous approved plans.
         4.        That the current CC&R’s are finalized and recorded with the Final Plat.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
                   General Plan.
         2.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper
                   City Municipal Code.
         3.        The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development
                   of the area.
         4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Final Plat, as requested by Armando Alvarez,
for Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), application SUBD-963-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Final Plat, requested by Armando
Alvarez, for Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), application SUBD-963-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                         App #SUBD-963-2020
Final Subdivision Plat                                  4
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. The applicant meets all requirements of DCMC 17-4 that pertain to this application and
       development.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26)
        feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.

    2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
       Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
       of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary
       Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any, and all permits could be revoked.

    3. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
       purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
       delivered on building site.

    4. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
       plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
       their background.

    5. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being, issued. All
       lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.

Notes: Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any
person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property caused
by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building
property shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
 EXHIBIT E
FINAL PLAT
