                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, Utah 84020


                                            STAFF REPORT
                                               March 27, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 9, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Pete Kane, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6335 or pete.kane@draper.ut.us

Re:      GRADING AND SLOPE—TEXT AMENDMENT
         Application No.:  TEXTMAP-962-2020
         Applicant:        Draper City
         Project Location: City-Wide
         Request:          Request for approval of a text amendment to various sections of Draper City
                           Municipal Code Title 9 to modify the regulations pertaining to grading,
                           slope, and retaining walls on properties.

BACKGROUND & SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a few text amendments. These text amendments have been
initiated by the City and are being proposed in order to mitigate perceived building heights. When a
property, or street, has existing or added grading and slope, the buildings can appear taller than the actual
measured height. The proposed text amendments will affect Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”)
Chapters 9-3 and 9-27. These changes would apply citywide.

A number of projects that are currently under construction in the city have raised concerns that the
buildings currently being built may exceed the maximum building height limit. The common factors for
each of these projects are that the sites have been raised or fill and retaining walls have been added that
cause the sites to sit higher than the abutting street. This causes the buildings to appear taller than they
really are when viewed from the street.

Based on staff analysis and reviews of these projects, it has been determined that DCMC regulations
should be updated to better handle development projects that require added fill, retaining walls, and
slopes.




«Project_Name»                                                                          App. # TEXTMAP-962-2020
Text Amendment Request                                1
ANALYSIS
The proposed text amendments (see Exhibit B) relate to DCMC “Title 9 – Land Use and Development
Regulations.” To make the adjustments as clear as possible, the amendments have been broken into two
categories: retaining walls and slope & rise.

Retaining Walls (Exhibit B, Action 1)
        The current regulations allow retaining walls of up to nine feet (9’) (see DCMC Section 9-27-
        085(F)(2)) which can be placed at the property line, typically the line shared with the street
        (essentially the outer sidewalk edge). In cases where there are tiered retaining walls, the code
        requires plantings in the area between each retaining wall (see DCMC Section 9-27-085(F)(3)).

         The proposed changes in this section further clarify the definition of height of a retaining wall
         when it has a varying height along the entire length – setting the height at its largest value.
         Additionally, the proposed language limits the height of retaining walls within the front setback
         area of a property to only four feet (4’) in height. This is similar to the height restriction currently
         in place for fences within front yards (see DCMC Section 9-27-080(A)(1)). This four-foot height
         limit would not apply to properties in the Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone due to the
         natural topography that would make development within this area very difficult to achieve. For
         the purposes of this section, additional language has been added to define the front setback area
         as well as clarify that a corner lot has two front setbacks, as currently defined in DCMC Section
         9-3-040.

         The existing language for the measurement of multiple retaining walls and their separation may
         not have been the easiest to understand for the layperson. Additional language has been added to
         spell out the mathematical functions that were in the code. A graphic exhibit has also been added
         to provide a visual explanation.

         Another proposed change requires that plantings be in front of each retaining wall instead of just
         between terraced retaining walls within 30 feet of a street. The reason for the proposed change is
         that the current regulation doesn’t require plantings for the front most retaining wall, or if there’s
         just one retaining wall there’s no planting requirement. The plantings help to “soften” the
         appearance of the walls and thus plantings in front of each wall will help to minimize the stark
         nature of these structures. This is coupled with a proposed change to require that retaining walls
         be of a decorative and/or architectural nature and not plain exposed poured concrete. This further
         helps to improve the appearance of the walls.

         To ensure that the pedestrian experience along a sidewalk is not one where the user has vehicles
         driving by on one side and a tall retaining wall on their opposite side, the proposed changes
         include language that retaining walls must be at least seven feet (7’) from the property line (the
         outer edge of the sidewalk). Doing this creates breathing room for the pedestrian as well as space
         for plantings in front of the retaining wall. A minimum of seven feet was determined due to the
         standard minimum utility easement requirement in the subdivision code (see DCMC Section 17-
         5-050(G)). This will ensure that the utilities are buried in the lower portion of the property and
         not behind the retaining wall.

Slope & Rise (Exhibit B, Action 2)
       The current regulations allow driveways to have a slope of up to 12% (see DCMC Section 9-27-
       160). The longer the driveway, the greater in height the building site becomes due to the
       maximum slope allowance. This translates to a higher building site as compared to the street. The
       proposed change limits the driveway slope to 10%, with an exception for the Hillside Sensitive
       Lands Overlay Zone which limits the slope to a maximum of 12% due to the natural topographic


Grading and Slope                                                                         App. # TEXTMAP-962-2020
Text Amendment Request                                  2
         challenges within this zone.

         Another proposed change is to set a regulation for the maximum slope within the front setback of
         properties. This section states that a maximum rise of two feet (2’) is allowed within the front
         setback area (except for portions required for parking lot screening where berms of three feet may
         be required for some properties (see DCMC Section 9-25-080(D)). Limiting the rise within the
         front setback achieves the same goal as limiting the height of a retaining wall in the front setback
         – it helps to ensure a lower/pushed back building site as compared to the right-of-way and thus
         lower perceived building height. This maximum rise limitation would not apply in the Hillside
         Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone due to the natural topographic challenges within this zone.


Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a text amendment request is
found in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

    2. Text Amendments:
          a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
              city’s general plan;
          b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance;
          c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
              there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
          d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
              title or the general plan;
          e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
              determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
              overall community benefit; and
          f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
              practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from the Division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed their review of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.



Grading and Slope                                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-962-2020
Text Amendment Request                                3
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
              plan.
    2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
    3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
    4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
              or the general plan.
    5.        The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to
              be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
              benefit.
    6.        The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban
              planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

     1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
        general plan.
     2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
        ordinance.
     3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not
        sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
     4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the
        general plan.
     5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be
        detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community
        benefit.
     6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban
        planning, design, and engineering practices.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the text amendment, as
requested by Draper City for the City-Initiated Grading and Slope Text Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-962-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
March 27, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the text amendment, as
requested by Draper City for the City-Initiated Grading and Slope Text Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-962-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
March 27, 2020, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:



Grading and Slope                                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-962-2020
Text Amendment Request                                4
         1.       List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for the text amendment, as
requested by Draper City for the City-Initiated Grading and Slope Text Amendment, application
TEXTMAP-962-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
March 27, 2020.




Grading and Slope                                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-962-2020
Text Amendment Request                               5
               DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.


                       Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                     Digitally signed by Matthew T. Symes

Brien Maxfield         DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou,
                       email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us, c=US
                       Date: 2020.04.03 11:59:31 -06'00'
                                                                    Matthew T. Symes DN: C=US, E=Matt.symes@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                     O=Draper City, CN=Matthew T. Symes
                                                                                              Date: 2020.04.03 11:52:21-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Division                                  Draper City Building Division

                                                                                             Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                             DN: C=US,
                                                                     Jennifer Jastremsky     E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                             O=Planning Division, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                             Date: 2020.04.03 11:50:27-06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                        Draper City Planning Division


                                                                    Mike Barker
                                                                                                 Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                                                                                 DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City
                                                                                                 Attorney, email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                                                 Date: 2020.04.03 12:12:07 -06'00'


                                                                   Draper City Legal Counsel
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
No comments were received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
No comments were received.

Building Division Review.
No comments were received.

Fire Division Review.
No comments were received.

Legal Review.
No comments were received.
      EXHIBIT B
PROPOSED TEXT CHANGES
Action 1 – Retaining Walls

9-27-085: RETAINING WALLS:
   F. Height, Separation And Plantings:
          1. For the purposes of this subsection, the height of a retaining wall is measured as
             the exposed height (H) of wall. If a retaining wall has a varying height along its
             length, the height is the largest value of the measured height along the length of
             the wall.
          2. For the purposes of this subsection, Front Setback Area shall mean the setback
             area adjacent to a street. For corner lots, as defined in 9-3-040, the two front
             setbacks areas shall be the two front yards.
          2. 3. A single retaining wall shall not exceed nine feet (9’) in height. Within the
             front setback area, each retaining wall shall not exceed four feet (4’) in height,
             except in the Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone where each retaining wall
             within the front setback area shall not exceed nine feet (9’) in height.
          3. 4. Terracing of retaining walls is permitted where justified by topographic
             conditions, but the combined height of all walls shall not exceed eighteen feet
             (18'). Walls with a separation of a distance of at least two times the height of the
             tallest wall (2 x height, height H (H of largest of 2 walls) from face of wall to face
             of wall shall be considered as separate walls. In a terrace of retaining walls, a
             minimum horizontal separation of at least half the height of the tallest wall of the
             terraced retaining walls group (Hheight of largest wall/2) is required as measured
             from back of lower wall to face of higher wall. See Figure 9-27-085-1.
          4. For walls viewable from a public right of way5. Walls within thirty feet (30’) of
             a street, the horizontal separation between walls shall:
                    a. be planted with The area in front of each retaining wall shall require a
                        minimum of five (5) shrubs for every twenty (20) linear feet of planting
                        area. The size of the shrubs shall be less than one-half (1/2) the width of
                        the terrace. Shrubs shall be watered by drip irrigation to minimize
                        erosion.
                    b. Retaining walls shall be colored, feature decorative or architectural
                        finishes such as but not limited to rock wall, board form, or split face.
                        Plain exposed poured concrete shall not be permitted.
          5. 6. Retaining walls shall be located at least seven feet (7’) away from any
             property line that is adjacent to a street.
          6. 7. A maintenance plan is required for a retaining wall permit.
FIGURE 9-27-085-1




Action 2 – Slope & Rise

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

GRADE, EXISTING: The grade of a property prior to the most recent proposed development or
construction activity.

9-27-160: DRIVEWAY SLOPE LIMITS; FRONT SETBACK MAXIMUM RISE; DRIVEWAY
   A. Driveways – No driveway shall exceed a slope of twelve percent (12%) ten percent
       (10%), except in the Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone where the maximum grade
       shall not exceed twelve percent (12%). When a driveway slopes downward from a street,
       the driveway shall be designed to prohibit surface water drainage from entering a
       building. (Ord. 394, 8-7-2001)
   B. Front Setback Maximum Rise
           a. If fill is added to a lot, a maximum rise of two feet (2’) is allowable within the
               front setback area excluding any portion required for parking lot screening.
               Maximum rise is reset at each retaining wall.
           b. Maximum rise limitation does not apply to Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay
               Zone.
