Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: June 25, 2020
Re: Jenson Farms Lot 109 Plat Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 0.361 acres located at 11857 S. Ridge Oak Lane.  The property is currently zoned R4 and is part of the Jenson Farms subdivision.
The subject property was platted on December 11, 2019 as part of the Jenson Farms Phase 1A subdivision.  The original Jenson Farms subdivision rezoning application and development agreement (“Agreement”) was approved by the City Council in October 2017.  The Agreement outlined a process for dedication of land to the city for a new park, road stubbing or street connections to the planned subdivision to the north and a chart showing the minimum number of different sized lots required in the subdivision.  There was no modification of development standards in that Agreement.
In July 2018, the Agreement was modified by the City Council to limit the number of building permits issued for Phase 1A and 2 of the Jenson Farms subdivision until the commencement of the construction of the road stub, or street connection, to the north.  Because that road is planned to go across Willow Creek, there are several agencies involved in the review of the crossing over the creek.  At this time, the applicant has submitted the design for the bridge crossing and it is currently under review by the City.  As part of that review for the bridge crossing, the City is asking that this plat amendment be completed in order to provide a 20 foot wide easement along the northern boundary of Lot 109.  The easement is needed for structures related to the bridge construction. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed plat amendment meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The proposed plat amendment will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
3.  There is good cause for the amendment and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
For denial:
1.  The proposed plat amendment does not meet the intent, goals, or objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The proposed plat amendment will be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the general public and the residents of adjacent properties.
3.   There is not good cause for the amendment and a public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 6/19/2020 Cover Memo