Draft minutes
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT: Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Planning
Commissioners Mary Squire, John Van Hoff, Gary Ogden, and DeLaina Tonks

ABSENT: Planning Commissioners Traci Gunderson, Kent Player, and Lisa Fowler

STAFF PRESENT: Mike Barker, Christina Oliver, Jennifer Jastremsky, Spencer DuShane,
Maryann Pickering, Russell Fox, Travis Van Eklenberg, Don Buckley, Amie Salazar, Brien
Maxfield, Don Buckley, Alan Taylor, Muriel Xochimitl, Nicole Martin, April Abate-Adams,
Paul Baker, Scott Adams, and Kristy Madrigal

ALSO, PRESENT: Roll on File

Business Meeting:

Chairman Adams welcomed everyone in attendance and thanked all the Staff and volunteers who
helped to support the meeting.

1.     Public Hearing: Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2 – Text Amendment Request
       (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Price Realty Group to amend various sections of Chapter 9-18G (Lone
       Peak Commercial Special District) of the Draper City Municipal Code. The project is
       located near the northwest corner of 12300 South and Lone Peak Parkway and is zoned
       CSD-LP (Lone Peak Commercial Special District). Staff contact: Maryann Pickering,
       801-576-6391, maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us. Application: TEXTMAP-918-2019.

Maryann Pickering, City Planner, provided an overview of the text amendment request which
included the current standards and proposed changes. She noted that Staff would recommend
moving the red archway further back from the traffic light to minimize any confusion it may
cause.

Steven Price, Applicant, presented the development plans for the park and indicated he felt the
plans would be an asset to the City.

Commissioner Hawker asked if plans were to only redo the exterior or existing buildings. [No
audio] (9:20 – 10:00)

Commissioner Hawker inquired about the reasoning behind the large signage that goes out into
the street.

Mr. Price explained that they were following new design features and elements and they wanted
people to know the park was there and important. He also noted that the arch was grey not red.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 2
Commissioner Van Hoff indicated he would like section 9-18-050(A)(1)(I) to read “decorative
masonry or decorative concrete”

Mr. Price clarified that the buildings would be made of tilt concrete patterned with wood sections
and decorative concrete. He then displayed some renderings of the designs.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked what the 18-foot setback was for in section 9-18G-050(A)(21).

Mr. Price responded that the 18-foot setback was on an existing building built back in 2006
which became non-complaint when they built the road which they privately funded. He noted
that the road was public and built to city standards.

Commissioner Van Hoff pointed out that section 9-18G-050(B)(12) addressed the use of
artificial turf, which he was unsure the City wanted to be used.

Mr. Price expounded on the reasons they decided to consider artificial turf which included
avoiding the overuse of water to keep grass green.

Ms. Pickering explained that artificial turf was not permitted on interior streets but would be
allowed along 12300 South.

Mr. Price pointed out that currently turf is too expensive, but they would like to have the option
when the prices for it come down.

Commissioner Van Hoff stated he felt that public art should be approved by the City.

Mr. Price replied that all the plans for art were on private property. Ms. Pickering noted that
there were standards that prohibited certain types of display in the park.

Commissioner Van Hoff identified that it required a larger radius for cars then it did for trucks.

Mr. Price described the reasoning behind the sizes of roads which included creating a large
enough space for trucks to turn at the same time. He noted that some streets and lanes were left
smaller to prohibit large trucks from going down them.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if turning templates were ran for the truck radius. He expressed
concern that the proposed radius was not large enough for truck entrances.

Commissioner Van Hoff shared his concern that having information for ten different tenants
would be too difficult for drivers to read without stopping to look at it.

Mr. Price stated that some buildings will have between five and six tenants which will require
additional signage.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if the City allowed signs to go over public rights-of-way.



                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 3
Mr. Price responded that the sign was over a private roadway.

Chairman Adams opened the Public Hearing on this Item. No comments were offered, and the
Public Hearing was closed.

Commissioner Squire asked if artificial turf was allowed in other zones.

Ms. Pickering answered that she did not know.

Commissioner Squire expressed that she would also like to modify both masonry and concrete.

Mike Barker, City Attorney, replied that it would be best to add the word decorative before each
to clarify the interpretation.

Vice Chairman Hawker asked if the sign over the right-of-way was on private property.

Ms. Pickering responded that an easement was not necessary for the sign and pointed out the
property lines.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Lone Peak Business Park CSD zoning text amendment request,
Application: TEXTMAP-918-2019, based on the findings listed and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2020 with the addition that section
9-18G-050(A)(1)(I) reads “decorative masonry or decorative concrete.”

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Van Hoff, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: BL Smith Rezone Request (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Byron L and Sue Ann Smith, for approval of a zoning map amendment
       to change the zoning map for 1.13 acres of land from RA1 (Residential Agricultural,
       40,000 sq.ft. minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. minimum) on the
       subject property located approximately at 999 E 13200 S. Staff Contact: Travis Van
       Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us. Application:
       TEXTMAP-934-2020.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, City Planner, presented an overview of the rezone request. He noted that
the general plan supported the land use designation and that changing the zoning would not be
unfavorable to the area.

Chairman Adams opened the Public Hearing on the Item. No comments were offered, and the
Public Hearing was closed.




                                                3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 4
Motion: Commissioner Ogden moved to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the BL Smith zoning map amendment as requested by Byron and Sue Ann
Smith from RA1 to RA2, application TEXTMAP-934-2020, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated February 11, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Van Hoff, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Offices on 7th Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map
       Amendment, and Development Agreement (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Keaton Morton, on the properties at 681 East Pioneer Road and 12388
       South 700 East, to amend the land use designation from Residential Medium Density to
       Neighborhood Commercial, to change the zoning designation from RA2 (Residential
       Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial) and
       obtain a development agreement. The properties equal 0.99 acres. Staff contact: Jennifer
       Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us. Applications: TEXTMAP-
       770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019, DA-938-2020.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, introduced the development agreement request. She noted
that the agreement includes a a concept site plan, so it has not gone through City review process
to verify compliance with City code.

Chairman Adams asked if they could legally prohibit Sober Living in these types of places. It
was indicated that they could only be restricted in residential zones and this would be in a
commercial zone.

Dave Morton, Applicant, explained why they felt the proposed plan would be a positive addition
and consistent with the area. He also noted that they planned to remain being owners and tenants
in the development after it has been built. He then reviewed the projects effects on traffic and
what they have done to create a development agreement.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item.

Janae Holmstead commented that she did not feel there was a need for more commercial in
Draper and that it would promote creep of the commercial area into residential areas as well.

Seth Wright stated he was concerned with the access since the intersection on Pioneer Road was
already crowded and suggested adding an additional access off 123rd. He added that the few
residents on the road do not feel they have good separation from the commercial anymore which
makes it difficult to want to stay.

Ray Bryant expressed that he felt this was the best use for the property they have seen so far. He
explained that the commercial creep and traffic were already a problem and there was nothing
they could do about it.


                                                4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 5

Steve Bryant indicated that he represented the Bryant Family who owns property to the west. He
noted that they have owned the property for several generations, but they should be allowed to
keep it or sell it and have it developed if they want to.

Kelsey Wall Wright shared that she lived across the street from the development. She expressed
concern with traffic in the area and the difficulty she faces getting in and out of her own
property.

John Wilkins noted that he lived directly south of the subject parcel. He stated that Draper has
and will continue to see a lot of growth, but he is against change that alters the look and feel of
the neighborhood. He noted that allowing for the development will increase traffic in the area
and will lead to more parcels on the block being rezoned to commercial. He then stated that
commercial encroachment needed to stop.

Brady Davies stated that him and his wife own a business called the Piano Place and he feels the
zoning of community commercial is appropriate. He added that if their business was allowed to
go in the area they would be a great asset to the community.

Tim Bryant stated commercial creep has happened in the area and will happen even if it is not
what people want or increases traffic.

Darrell Smith indicated he was the owner of the property. He recognized that change can be
difficult but can be a benefit to the community.

Chairman Adams closed the Public Hearing.

Commissioner Hawker asked if there was fencing requirements.

Ms. Jastremsky replied that next to residential the code requires 20-foot landscape buffer and a
6-foot fence or a 10-foot landscape buffer and an 8-foot fence. She noted that there was nothing
in the development agreement that would change those requirements.

Commissioner Hawker stated that he voted for this because Pioneer Road is already very
commercial with the exception of about six or seven homes.

Commissioner Squire stated that her concerns about the continuation of commercial have not
been addressed. She added that unless they were looking to have both the north and south side of
Pioneer go commercial she was not comfortable with the change.

Commissioner Van Hoff commented that he agreed with Commissioner Squire and that they
need to do something to control commercial creep.

Motion: Vice Chairman Hawker motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment for Residential Medium Density to



                                                  5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 6
Neighborhood Commercial as requested by Keaton Morton, Application TEXTMAP-770-
2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vice Chairman Hawker agreed that there was commercial creep but felt that this was the highest
and best use for the area.

Commissioner Tonks recognized there were mixed emotions about the development. She
indicated she was in support of the development.

Chairman Adams stated that he liked that the development would be limited to two stories and
noted that commercial creep had already happened in the area.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”. Commissioners Van Hoff and Squire
voted, “Nay”.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to CN as requested by Keaton Morton
Application TEXTMAP-771-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
February 18, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”. Commissioners Van Hoff and Squire
voted, “Nay”.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Development Agreement as requested by Keaton Morton, Application DA-
938-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2020.

Second: Vice Chairman Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”. Commissioners Van Hoff and Squire
voted, “Nay”.

4.     Public Hearing: Avery Townhomes Preliminary Plat Request (Administrative
       Action)
       On the request of Armando Alvarez for Preliminary Plat Approval, known as Avery
       Townhomes (Fka Victoria Woods Phase 2) Subdivision, located at approximately 644
       East 12225 South. Staff contact: Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522,
       travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us. Application: SUBD-926-2019



                                              6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 7
Mr. Van Ekelenburg presented an overview of the Avery Townhomes Preliminary Plat Request.
It was noted that it would have the same owner but a different HOA from the development to the
north.

Armando Alvarez, Applicant, explained that they were proud of their project and simply looking
for this next step of approval to move forward.

Chairman Adams opened the Public Hearing on this Item. No comments were offered, and the
Public Hearing was closed.

Motion: Vice Chairman Hawker motioned to approve the Preliminary Plat as requested by
Armando Alvarez for Avery Townhomes (Fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), Application
SUBD-926-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Van Hoff, Squire, Hawker, Ogden, Tonks voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: Geneva Rock Products II – Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning
       Map Amendment, Text Amendment, and Development Agreement Request
       (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry and
       Associates Inc, for a Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 64.27 acres from
       Residential Low/Medium Density to Open Space and Parks and approximately 26.99
       acres from Residential Low/Medium Density to Industrial and Manufacturing, and
       Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 64. 27 acres from A5 (Agricultural, 5-acre
       lot minimum) to OS (Open Space) and approximately 26.99 acres from A5 to M2 (Major
       Manufacturing), and a Text Amendment to allow Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction
       as permitted uses in the M2 zone, and a Development Agreement. Staff contact: Jennifer
       Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us. Applications: TEXTMAP-
       944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020, TEXTMAP-946-2020, and DA-947-2020.

Chairman Adams: So, this is Agenda Item Number Five. Thank you. All right, this Public
Hearing is the Geneva Rock Products II – Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment,
Text Amendment, and Development Agreement Request. On the request of Dave Kallas,
representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry and Associates Inc, for a Land Use Map
Amendment for approximately 64.27 acres from Residential Low/Medium Density to Open
Space and Parks and approximately 26.99 acres from Residential Low/Medium Density to
Industrial and Manufacturing, and add Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 64. 27 acres
from A5, Agricultural, 5-acre lot minimum, to Open Space and approximately 26.99 acres from
A5 to M2, Major Manufacturing, and a Text Amendment to allow Basic Industry and Mining
Extraction as permitted uses in the M2 zone, and a Development Agreement. Our Staff contact is
Jennifer Jastremsky, so, Jennifer let’s get started.




                                              7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 8
Jennifer Jastremsky: Great, thank you. So first, I wanted to start by, um, outlining the public
outreach that the City had done for this application. Obviously, there is a lot of people in the City
that are interested in this project, this proposal. The City has placed the entire application that
Geneva submitted on their website for the public to review. We included a site by site
comparison chart with what they proposed in 2018 to what, uh, the current proposal is, um,
including links to, um, their Division of Oil Gas and Mining permits as well as frequently asked
questions, uh, page. Uh, the City has done a weekly social media post on Twitter, Instagram, and
Facebook as well as, the, uh, Mayor also posting on his Facebook page. Um, there have been
regular emails with the City’s e-, uh, newsletter, um, that newsletter goes out to about 10,000
residence and area businesses. Um, so that, uh, e-newsletter went out in February and another
will go out in March prior to, uh, the Council meeting. And then, uh, Draper Forward, the
March/April addition will also have information on this application, and that printed newsletter
goes out to about 17,000, uh, residence. Um, the public has been able to provide the City
comments, uh, on the online public comment form as well as the e-mail info@draper.ut.us, as
well as being able to provide public comment tonight and at the Council meeting. Um, in
addition, before you, um, is additional public comment that we have received since the planning
packet has gone out. Um, so that is there for you to review. And I did want to mention that
several residences have gotten a post card in the mail either today or yesterday, that was not sent
out by the City. We don’t know who sent that out, but, uh, I just wanted to clarify that was not a
public notice from the City.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Okay, so, to help orient you, I, we all kind of know where Geneva is
generally located. It’s at the point of the mountain off Minuteman Drive. The area that we are
specifically talking about today is to the east of the current mining operations. Um, and I’m
actually going to get out of here and go onto Google Maps, um, so that we can see a 3D image of
the property. So, the development proposals include four separate areas that Geneva’s kind of
outlined in their development proposal. So, if we kind of zoom out a little bit. This area that’s
being mined here is in Lehi. And I want to kind of point that out because, um, because you’re
going to hear references to a high wall tonight. That is the high wall that is being referenced
when you hear that, and that is all within Lehi’s City boundary.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Um, so this in the purple is the four areas under discussion tonight. Now,
Lehi has approved their Traverse Mountain area plan, which includes not only the existing
development down by Cabelas, um, the outlets, but as well as additional development along that
high wall area. So, I wanted to bring that up so you guys kind of have a wholistic view of what
Lehi/Draper area and this specific shared boundary is looking at, but also kind of that 3D view of
the grading. That kind of thing, I think, helps kind of bring it a little bit into perspective.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Okay, so, the entire area under discussion tonight is, uh, in the residential
low/medium density land use designation. That is, uh, density for single family acre/half-acre
lots. The property is entirely in the A5 zoning designation. That is agricultural, uh, zone so it
allows agricultural businesses as well as single family on five-acre lots. So, the City does have
hillside sensitive overlay, uh, zone within the City, which is basically all properties south and
east of Highland Drive. So, the Geneva property is within that overlay. Um, so this is kind of
zoomed into the Geneva property here. So, any future development, um, on that property, you



                                                 8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 9
know, it is within that overlay and that overlay looks at hillside sensitivity, um, slope stability,
that kind of thing.

Jennifer Jastremsky: So, um, like I stated there are four areas that Geneva is looking at, areas
one, two, three, and four, and I’ll talk about each one individually. Now, I did want to point one
thing out, the initial application map that Geneva submitted to, um, looked like this, there has
been a slight change between what their initial application shows and what was in your packet
and that is because there is a discrepancy between the property line that Geneva has and the
City/County boundary line. So, the initial application map showed Geneva’s property line. Um,
the updated map changes that to reference City/County boundary. Um, so, like this area here, is
actually in Utah County. It is not within Draper City. So, that’s why there is a slight change
there.

Jennifer Jastremsky: So, in, uh, the 3D map. So, um, area one here is in, is the front face of Steep
Mountain. Area two is the back face of Steep Mountain and then area four here is adjacent to that
high wall that is in Lehi. Uh, area three is kind of in between those, those specific areas. So, area
one, um, is about 43 acres in size. So, again it is that front face of Steep Mountain. So, the
applicant is proposing to change that land use designation to open space and parks and change
the zoning map to OS, Open Space.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Area two is the back face of Steep Mountain, it’s about 21 acres in size. The
applicant is proposing to change land use designation on that property to open space and parks
and change the zoning to OS, Open Space.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Area three is about, um, 49 acres in size and the applicant is proposing no
changes to area three. So, it will remain in the residential low/medium density designation and it
would remain in the A5 Agricultural Zone.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Area four is about 27 acres in size, so that’s the area that’s adjacent to the
high wall. The applicant is proposing to change the zoning designation on that property to
industrial manufacturing, or sorry, the land use on the property to industrial manufacturing the
zoning designation to M2, which is major manufacturing.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Um, so there is a development agreement under discussion tonight, well,
under discussion with this application. The Planning Commission will not actually be making a
recommendation on this development agreement. Um, so the Planning Commission makes
recommendations on development agreements when the proposed agreement changes or
modifies development standards. So, the offices on 7th that you reviewed earlier tonight, they
were proposing to change standards. Uh, roof standards, architectural standards. The
development agreement proposed by Geneva does not do any of those things, so you will not be
making a recommendation, but the discussion of what is in that is very important, I think, for you
guys to know as your considering this application.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Um, so, area one, um, in the agreement, um, Geneva states that they will
donate to the City that 43 acres to be used as public open space, um, Geneva would retain a right
to revision should the City use the property as anything other than open space. Which means, if


                                                   9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 10
the City decides, oh hey, you know what we want to allow this to be developed, Geneva would
take it back. Um, so, that is to help ensure that it is used as the open space. And again, that’s the
front face of Steep Mountain.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Area two, uh, back face of Steep Mountain, um, Geneva would retain
ownership of that, but it would become private open space. Again, they are proposing to rezone
that to the open space zone, so that would not be developed, um, but it would count toward
future development rights in calculations for development on the rest of the Geneva property
when it is eventually developed.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Uh, area three again they are not proposing any changes to that 49 acres but
in the development agreement, Geneva acknowledges the future development would likely be
commercial or residential and subject to City zoning and that Hillside Sensitive Overlay zone.

Jennifer Jastremsky: And then area four, that 27 acres, they are rezoning to M2, uh, that would
be allowed to be mined. So, the third application that, uh, you guys will be making a
recommendation on tonight is a text amendment. So, the applicant is looking to modify the use
chart for the M2 zone to make basic industry and mineral extraction as permitted. Um, and
mineral extraction would also have the caveat that it would be permitted with an existing, uh,
permit through the Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining. And I’ve got those, uh, definitions up here
if you have any questions on what those are.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Um, so we do have a comparison chart, uh, that’s available on the website
for resident’s, again, comparing the 2018 application to 2020 application. So, the 2018 Geneva,
um, looked to rezone 72 acres of property to the M2 Zone in order to mine, um, that would have
been a land use map amendment to Industrial Manufacturing as well on that 72 acres, um, they
also look to make a basic industry mineral extraction permitted use in the M2 zone. And then the
proposed development agreement at that time would have put 78 acres of land into conservation
easement. Um, again with this current application, the City is actually getting 43 acres for open
space and another 21 acres would be designated private open space and only 27 acres would be
mined.

Jennifer Jastremsky: So, the Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining or (DOGM) has looked at the high
wall issue in Lehi, looking at what are the options to resolve, uh, the existing slope on that high
wall and they have come up with four scenarios here. Um, so, uh, leave it in current conditions,
add fill to change the slope, or seek approval from Draper City to mine a little bit further into
City boundary to, uh, decrease that slope. All three of these would, uh, limit, uh potential. Some
of them have high slope stability, uh, concerns with that. And then a fourth one, would be to
allow additional mining on that property. So, I want to show you, uh, this graphic here. I think
it’s very important to kind of illustrate to you what kind of slopes DOGM is looking at when
they, when they put this together. The City boundary is about right here, where this is Draper
City, and this is Lehi. So, the black line here is the existing high wall in Lehi. Um, so looking at
options that the property owners have working with Lehi and DOGM, they can provide, uh,
additional fill on the property, which would be the green line here. They can work with Lehi to
modify Lehi’s standards and bring in a smaller amount of fill to meet DOGM standards. Or they
could, if they were able to secure mining rights, uh, through Draper bring, bring the high wall


                                                  10
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 11
down to again meet Lehi slope standards. All of these options here do not leave anything that is
developable or a slope that is capable of being re-vegetated. Um, the fourth option would be to,
again, um, secure the right to mine the property in Draper and bring the slope down all the way.
This property would be re-vegetable, um, it would be developable. So, those are the different
options that DOGM has identified for the applicant. Um

Commissioner Van Hoff: Can you, can you point out where, uh, area one, two, and three lie
within these.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Uh, so up here, this is going to be kind of your area four. Right here. Okay.
So, area one is going to be over here and area two is over here, so they’re kind of off this map.
DOGM was not looking at Geneva’s specific proposal to the City when they did this, they were
just analyzing the high wall in Lehi.

Commissioner Van Hoff: So, where alternative four meets the existing condition, that’s the red
line at the very north?

Jennifer Jastremsky: This would be, um, meeting the minimum slope that, or the maximum slope
that DOGM would allow. So, that alternative four would be the purple. So, this, or uh, sorry the
blue. So, this would be, uh, essentially what Geneva is requesting tonight.

Commissioner Van Hoff: And where it meets the existing condition, that’s were area four ends?
Is that the boundary between area four and area three is what I’m asking?

Jennifer Jastremsky: No, so the existing condition. Let me see

Commissioner Squire: That’s in Lehi isn’t it?

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah, so that’s in Lehi, so that existing condition line is right here. So,
that’s in Lehi.

Commissioner Van Hoff: Okay, but the boundary between area four and area three is the next
line up, right?

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah, so.

Chairman Adams: But those colored lines. Or the first time I looked at this I was a bit confused
as well, so I had. Basically, what we’ve got to the right here on this grid, that’s this Draper side
without any of the colored lines in there.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah, so everything here is Draper. So, essentially this would be where that,
uh, area three would start. And this would all be area four.

Commissioner Van Hoff: Okay, that’s what I was asking. Thank you.




                                                 11
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 12
Jennifer Jastremsky: Okay, then, uh, DOGM did provide some images of the high wall as well so
you can see what kind of slope that does have on it. Um, and as you can see from their pictures it
is sluffing off and is unstable.

Commissioner Squire: Do we have anyone from DOGM here tonight?

Jennifer Jastremsky: We do.

Commissioner Squire: Oh, excellent.

Jennifer Jastremsky: And they did have a picture of what, uh, the potential would be for, uh,
revegetation of a reclaimed slope. Um, and I do have some images from 2018 application, so you
can kind of, uh, see what the property looks like, uh, from the top there. And then, so, we do
have representatives from DOGM here to answer any questions that you do have from them and
then the City’s geotechnical consultant Alan Taylor is also here and available to answer any
questions that you may have.

Jennifer Jastremsky: And then I’d like to, uh, point out as the public is coming up if they have
not already provided that comment card to us, and they still have that, if they could hand that to
the Chairman, so that we have that, uh, for our files. And I’m happy to answer any questions.

Vice Chairman Hawker: Jennifer I’ve got. On this open space, um, are there proposed uses on
this. I mean is it just mountain biking trails? Or is it just going to stay, uh, open there? What do
you think they are proposing there? Cause, I know it said that if you wanted to do something
different, they have the right to take it back, so that’s on area one and area two. So, I’m just
trying to make sure what really open space is.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah, so, area two would be private open space. Geneva would retain
ownership of that, so, that would not have public access as far as I know at this point. Um, area
one would be City public open space, so, um, we could put tails on there, bike trails, hiking
trails. So, um, the open space zone allows park, trails, that kind of thing in it.

Vice Chairman Hawker: My section question is, is area three, if this proposed use happens. That
48.87 acres is used to count for development eventually at the, at the 26.99, so there could be
quite a bit of, um, higher density commercial all of that, that would be counted. Am I
understanding that correctly?

Jennifer Jastremsky: Um, yeah, it doesn’t count just for that 27 acres though. If I go back to this
arial here, Geneva does own all of this property. So, when we’re saying that, you know, 49 acres
counts toward development, uh, rights it’s for the whole thing

Vice Chairman Hawker: Not this proposed?

Jennifer Jastremsky: Right.

Vice Chairman Hawker: Okay, Thank you. Thank you for that clarification.


                                                 12
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 13

Commissioner Squire: I have a question for you Jen. For area two, since that’s private open
space, how are we guaranteeing, with the development agreement or however else that, that will
remain open space. That they won’t come back and ask again for a zone change or a change in
land use.

Jennifer Jastremsky: So, the open space zone would not allow for, um, any mining obviously, so
that is, that is what would prohibit that from being zoned. I

Commissioner Squire: Is there any prohibition on a request in the future?

Christina Oliver: currently there is not a proposal for that in the development agreement.

Commissioner Squire: Mr. Barker is that something we could have run with the land. A
perpetual open space. Some sort of requirement for that, because I think if we, I would just say,
um, that’s a major concern for me.

Mr. Barker: So, what you have in your packet tonight is pretty much the development agreement
that Geneva had submitted.

Commissioner Squire: And I know that’s not our job.

Mr. Barker: So, based on your comments tonight and from the public, those may be areas that,
that, that between now and when it goes to the City Council there may be opportunities for
negotiation. That’s certainly an area we’ve identified to make sure that, that does get locked
down, and does not end up ten years down the road being the subject of a, maybe Geneva
decides they want to give up the credit for the open space and would rather mine and we.
Obviously, it is the City’s best interest to lock that down.

Commissioner Squire: Yeah. Absolutely.

Jennifer Jastremsky: And I’d like to point out that you are not making a recommendation on the
development agreement

Commissioner Squire: Correct. Correct, but obviously that ties into what our decision is.

Jennifer Jastremsky: It does and that’s why we needed to bring it up.

Commissioner Squire: Yeah. And so, there was a graphic that compared the 2018 and the current
applications. I just glanced at that when you had it up momentarily, but is the, the proposed area
the same number of acres? It looked like it might have been bigger in 2018.

Chairman Adams: It went down.

Commissioner Squire: Yeah, okay.



                                                13
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 14
Jennifer Jastremsky: So, its, I think a slight variation, based on that, again between that
discrepancy between property line and County/City boundary lines.

Commissioner Squire: It seemed like it may have been bigger than that because in 2018

Mr. Barker: She is comparing the total acreage in 2018 versus the total acreage in this
application.

Commissioner Hawker: This is 140 compared to 79 or 73 back then.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Well it was 73 for mining and then another 78, uh, for conservation
easement.

Commissioner Squire: Okay. Oh, and so, on our four areas it’s the same.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah.

Commissioner Squire: So, does Geneva Rock own any more land in Draper City. That would be
un-zoned if this passes through the City Council.

Jennifer Jastremsky: I don’t believe so, that may be a question for them, but I don’t believe so.

Commissioner Squire: Okay. That’s all I have.

Chairman Adams: Will you leave it on that slide, Jen, when you are done? Unless there is
another presentation coming up.

Jennifer Jastremsky: The applicant does have a presentation.

Chairman Adams: Okay. Alright. We’ll want to come back to this because this is good history
for everyone to kind of hear what’s gone on over the years. Alright, any other questions
commissioners before we invite the applicant up. Okay let’s go ahead and do that now Jennifer.
Thank you. Is the applicant here. Come on down and talk to us.

Bruce Baird: Mr. Chairman. Members of the Planning Commission. Thanks Jennifer. My name
is Bruce Baird, I’m council for the project, uh, I’m going to be extraordinarily brief tonight
because Jennifer has done an amazingly thorough job of explaining, uh, everything whether
some people like it or not. She’s explained it as well as it could possibly be explained, I think.
And let me take a couple of the questions that the Council asked, because I’ll address them, or
the Planning Commission asked, and I’ll address them.

Bruce Baird: Uh, first, we do agree with DOGM that the best alternative would be to take the
whole high wall down. We’ll show you, the only additional slide we’ll show you, I had a
presentation but Jennifer’s stuff, frankly, was as good or better than what I had, so all I’m going
to show you is an after slide of what taking the high wall down, so that it meets that blue line, uh,
and, Mr. Van Hoff it meets it at the area three/four boundary as you suggested. We’ll show you


                                                 14
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 15
what that land would look like, uh, revegetated. Uh, so, that’s the only additional slide I’m going
to show you. Uh, we do believe that it is a better idea to take the whole high wall down rather
than to have it be in an unusable condition or in the one to one slope that it currently is allowed
to be. We think the whole thing is the better way to do it.

Bruce Baird: So, the answer to the, a couple of the questions you raised are, and I think Jennifer
answer the questions regarding area one, the City could use the property, its property open space,
for any typical open space purposes. The only reason we put the reversion in there is cause,
because I have seen more than one project where, uh, developers gave land to a local government
or a school district or something else, and the local government and or the school district turned
around and sold it, and developed it, and we wanted to make sure that never happened. So, the
easiest thing to do was to put the poisoned bill in there, that if somebody tries to do something
other than open space, that it would go back to Geneva. We don’t want it back. We want it to
stay perpetual open space.

Bruce Baird: Regarding area number two there was a question about, to Mr. Barker about
whether it was possible to make a restrictive covenant to preserve the open space perpetually, so
that Geneva could not come back to even ask for it to be rezoned and that is certainly something
that we are willing to discuss with the City Council as part of the MDA, and if you want to make
the recommendation that you think that is a wise land use, for area two when we rezone it, to
have that covenant we understand and pretty much excepted that you would make that
recommendation. I’m not necessarily agreeing to it here, but it’s not a surprise to any of us.

Bruce Baird: Regarding area three, the question is, was, how it would be used. The City’s current
land use code to the hillside ordinance makes some highly technical distinctions between using it
for density versus using it for open space. And what we are doing is we’re complying. We’re
saying we’re going to use it in compliance with the City’s current code as part of the open space
for the development of the entire Hansen property, not just area four. Uh, we have no idea what
is going to happen on area three over time. Uh, we hope that it turns into a, a wonderful either
residential/commercial, uh, community, master planned community as part of the entire point of
the mountain re-development. Whenever that may be, and we’re hoping 20 years, but no one
ever knows.

Bruce Baird: The reason for the acreage difference is, that was discussed, a couple things. One,
the proposal a year and a half or so ago, involved some land swaps regarding some other
property as opposed to just area one, two, three, and four. Uh, we’re dealing with, as it relates to
area one, two, three, and four in this proposal, they are essentially the same dimensions as they
were the last time. The only wrinkle is, uh, we uncovered the fact that as you may know there is
a confusion between the County boundary lines as related to the, uh, various ridge lines. You
have dealt with that a couple of times in the past I believe, regarding Edelweiss, I think, and I
know Suncrest, because that’s where we passed the constitutional amendment to allow those
boundary lines to be adjusted, so that County boundary lines did not run through houses. Uh, so,
those are the differences, uh, I mean those are the points we’d like to talk about. Do you have
that one slide? Can you give the slide? Could you just bring up the after slide? I don’t know
where it is in that. I don’t know which, oh, it’s this one. Okay. Sorry. There, somebody already
brought it up. That’s, there it is, never mind, I didn’t, I wasn’t paying attention I was


                                                 15
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 16

Bruce Baird: So, this is the current condition, and this is a version of what the side, hillside,
would look like afterwards. You can see that this is where the high wall has come down. So, this
is the after slide. Other than graphically representing it to you, we wanted you to be able to see
what it would be, uh, and this would be the DOGM alternative four version. So, that’s the only
addition. We have some of our team hear if you have any questions. I have the environmental,
uh, representatives here and the engineering representatives if you have any questions for our
team. But otherwise I’ll try to keep it brief. Uh, I think the last time we were here while, the uh, I
can’t remember, the world series or something was going on, and we were all updating the
scores, and uh, but I want to get people out of here as soon as possible, so I’ll try to be as brief as
possible. If you have any questions, we’re happy to answer them, otherwise we’d like the
opportunity to come back if necessary, to make a brief rebuttal after, uh, we hear from the public
comment. Thank you very much.

Commissioner Squire: Mr. Baird, I do have a question. My Colleague next to me did some quick
math and it looks like the discrepancy is about 11 acres from the 2018 application until now. So,
just to be very clear are you saying that all those, all of the additional acreage that was in the
2018 application actually lies in Utah County and not in Salt Lake County?

Bruce Baird: No. To be 100% clear I’m saying I don’t know the entire deviation of the 11 acres.
I know part of it is the Utah County issue. I honestly can’t tell you as we stand here because,
today because I don’t want to give you and answer that isn’t correct. I can tell you that we’ll find
it out, but I can also tell you that we have not increased in anyway the area which we are seeking
to mine. In fact, we’ve dramatically decreased the area that we’re seeking to mine. And other
than that, I apologize. I wish somebody had pointed out that discrepancy to me earlier. I didn’t
notice it and that is my fault.

Commissioner Squire: So, is it your understanding at least that all of the remaining land that is
not zoned for the manufacturing and mining, um, that Geneva Rock owns within Draper City is
included in this application tonight.

Bruce Baird: And that’s the only other thing I forgot to mention in response to your earlier
thought. As far as I understand your question, this application and the existing Hansen pit deals
with all of Geneva’s property that is in, uh, Draper City.

Commissioner Squire: Okay

Bruce Baird: And I apologize for not answering that earlier.

Commissioner Squire: No, that’s fine. I just wanted some clarity on that.

Bruce Baird: We’re not. There is not some attempt to have some missing sliver that is going to
suddenly wind up being rezoned accidentally or intentionally to mining beyond what we are
showing you. And I apologize for not answering that question.

Commissioner Squire: Okay. Thanks.


                                                  16
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 17

Bruce Baird: Any other questions? Otherwise we’ll just listen to the public. Thank you very
much.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. We’ll have you back up to answer any, uh, questions. Alright, so
this is a Public Hearing. We’ll take the time right now to just review the rules for public
comments, since this is what most of you are here for. Uh, if you’ve got something you’d like to
mention, uh, or comment we’ll give you up to three minutes. So, you don’t need to take those
full three minutes. Uh, we do encourage that you bring up a point. The first persons got it easy
cause everything you say will be fresh and new and so after that, uh, we just encourage you just
to, for the sake of time, if your point has already been brought up a couple times, just we get it,
and I’ll actually be keeping a little tally up here to see if anything new is coming up. You know
what, and what we’ll do too is we’ll let the public hearing go and then we may take a quick break
in between that, in between the public hearing, so if that goes on. So, and also, we want to be
mindful there are some people out in the lobby and hall area, so we’ve got these cards up here
and I will go in order of these cards. Um, again if you are one of the three that, that did not, we
already discussed that, we wont bring that up again, but uh, I’ll go in order of these cards and
then we just want to be mindful, uh, and respectful of people out in the hall, so, as that, uh,
happens well make sure to, you know, give a little bit of time for someone to pop their head in.
Alright, so, let’s go ahead, anybody. We’re all clear on the rules. By the way no cheering, no
booing, no hissing, we’re all friends here. We all want clean air. We all want to live in a great
community together, be friends, and say hi to them, each other, at the mall after this.

Chairman Adams: Alright, so, we’ll go ahead and open this up for public comment. First one
I’ve got on the list is Nile Brewer and then after Nile Brewer we’ll have Johnathan Jeffries. So,
we’ll just ask you for the sake of time, just, if you are on deck. This reminds me of Karaoke a bit,
right? If you’re on deck just be ready and, uh, we’ll save that long silent walk up to the front.
And as you come up please state your name and address for the recording.

Nile Brewer: Uh, my name’s Nile Brewer, uh 202 East Bridge Park Circle in Draper. I won’t
take the full three minutes, but what I would like to say, I’m sure these guys have way better
facts then what I’m going to have, but, uh, what I would tell you is I don’t want a train to be
going by the point, and you know, and massive developments there, but I wouldn’t come and
argue against it. I don’t really want high rises where the prison is but I’m not going to come here
and argue against it, and the reason I’m not is because it doesn’t benefit me I don’t want it but
my neighbors, it will probably benefit them, the community, it will benefit them, and I’m for that
even though I might not like it, but I can’t justify giving them extra space, digging for another 20
years. Even on their website it says, we’re not going away. And they’ve been here a long time.
We’re not asking them to go away. That’s great, make your concrete, make your black top,
whatever you’re doing you have your space but to justify allowing them to expand.

Nile Brewer: So, that they can, this area, the reason everybody paraglides and hang-glides here is
because there is so much wind and as a pilot it would benefit me to say, yeah. Fantastic. Give us
the extra space so we can fly forever, but it’s more important to me to have the clear air. I’ve
been in the sky flying and I’ve seen the trails of dust being carried almost into downtown, that’s
anecdotal, since it’s from what I’ve seen, but what I’d ask you to think about when you’re


                                                17
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 18
looking at their proposal is, can you justify this for your kids or for your grandkids? Does this
make us a good steward to our land or good neighbors? This is something that, they’re not going
away, we already know that, but I’d just ask you to consider that is what benefit do we have from
this, it doesn’t help us as a community. We’ve grown beyond that, so, thank you for your time.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. So, now we’ve got Johnathan Jeffries and after that Chuck Elliott.

Johnathan Jeffries: Hello. My name is Johnathan Jeffries. Thank you for your time and thank you
for your attention on this matter. Um, I’ve been following this issue for a long time and a little
while ago I e-mailed with Lehi City, because I was really wondering what I the world is going on
over there. Um, and he informed me that that they are mining but, in his words, it was called
mass grading with export. He said it was not really mining and, uh, he informed me that, uh, the
high wall that’s been made there is, well, from, sorry I’m losing my train of thought there a little
bit. I’ve been following this for a while and Lehi City Councilman, Paul Hancock, told me that
this was not mining, it’s mass grading. And I look at it and I see the high wall they’ve created
and what’s in my mind is, it seems like Geneva has come into this planning on bulldozing you
guys because they have created a situation that they’ve kind of need to get out of now and the
only solution is to either remove the whole thing. I think they went into this thinking Draper City
is going to fold, let’s just mine that right up to a high wall and we’ll get Draper City to fold and
when they do, we’ll be able to keep going, but last year it didn’t really work out that well
according to what I think they wanted to do.

Johnathan Jeffries: Originally, they were wanting about 72 acres and if my math is right then
they were hoping for 18, now they’re hoping for about 27. I could be a little bit wrong on those
numbers, but, um. I would love to see it if they would not mine anymore. That would be great if
they could just mine what they have now and not expand their mining. Um, but if they do, if you
feel any pressure from HB 288 from the State saying they could come in and just do whatever
they want over your heads, if you’re feeling pressure from that, I’d like you to stick to your guns
and, uh, not fold. And I’d like you to, um, stick to your guns and not re-zone it. If you do need to
compromise, I understand. I would highly encourage you to negotiate the best that you can to
have the area that needs to be mined as small as possible. They wanted 18 at one point, so maybe
you could get them to go back to 18 and get as much land as you can as open space without any
of these silly tricks where they could change the zoning later. So, that’s what my hope is. And I
commend you for your work. Thank you for your time.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Chuck Elliott and after that, uh, we’ve got, it looks like Ferris Taylor,
on deck.

Chuck Elliott: Chuck Elliott 14841 South Parowan Way. I live right over the hill from where this
disaster is being proposed. I get dust all the time. My house is already dusty, it shakes. When I
look out off the point in my view there is a brown cloud every time it’s windy. I complained one
time to some government entity, I can’t remember who it was, and they said, well once the wind
reaches a certain point it’s like an act of God. They have no control over it. And I thought that’s
just the wrong answer, cause that’s when we need it most. And, uh, all those poor people who
live down by Ikea and that whole western corridor along the freeway, I’ve got friends that live
down in there, their cars are covered in dust 24/7, 365. This is a horrible idea. Um, your


                                                18
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 19
concerns, your comments earlier concerned me about the use. You should get other there and
look at it. That wall is straight up and down there is now way you are going to put hiking trails
and bike trails and stuff on it. They need to just leave it alone it’s straight up and down. It was
the widow maker. And, uh, somebody can hike the top or use it for exercise but, um, if we were
standing here today and they wanted to rezone it to build a house, cool, you know a
development, something like that, but they want to make dust. And if it were rare earth minerals
gold, copper, something exotic and that needed to be the place they got it, great, but you know
what? It’s not, it’s gravel. The whole state is full of gravel they can go down the street. You’ve
got Pelican Point, you’ve got the north point, they can go west, they’ve got the whole. They
don’t need to do it in our backyard. [clapping]

Chairman Adams: Okay. Hold on. Hey, hey, hey, we cannot have any clapping or cheering. Just
the same, it’s just the inverse of doing. Sorry, Chuck, stand by just one second. So, if we do that,
we’ll just shut the meeting down. But please, no clapping. No booing. Fair? We good? Okay, go
ahead.

Chuck Elliott: one last quick point. I had a half acre right down the street. I inquired of the City
about getting it rezoned so I could develop it and I was told no, because my color wasn’t right
color on the chart etcetera. Don’t do that for the big guys. If I can’t do it, don’t let them. Um,
and, uh, they should just change their name to Geneva Cattle and run cattle. It’s zoned for
grazing and agriculture. Leave it that way. Please save us all from breathing the garbage in the
air. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright next we’ve got Ferris Taylor and then on deck after that is
Johnny Vasic.

Ferris Taylor: First, Ferris Taylor, 602 Draper Heights Way. I’m wearing two hats one is I back
ride up the traverse ridge, um, second of all I’m the president of the Draper Heights HOA, which
is 110 homes. And this has been a lively discussion, uh, for a number of years. I have lived in my
home for 15 years. Uh, grew up in Idaho, drove the point of the mountain since I was a child. It’s
very different today than it was 71 years ago when I was born and, uh, I agreed with Johnathan’s
comment that we, the Planning Board, did not create that high wall why should we have to
reduce the height of a mountain another 300 feet to compensate or make up for a high wall that
Geneva has created.

Ferris Taylor: My other points, uh, reinforcing the fellow before me, uh, we can’t open our
windows in our home and we back right up. Our backyard is 15 feet going up. We can’t open our
windows without having a layer of dust all over our home. I can document it, but I’ve probably
replaced in the 15 years at least a half a dozen wind shields because of the trucks getting on to
the freeway and throwing the rocks. That’s where I get on the freeway. Uh, so, um, at a
minimum there should be some liability or some responsibility to control the dust with what’s
there and anything done in the future and to take accountability for the damage they do to other
property.

Ferris Taylor: Uh, my, um, our HOA includes Widow Maker, if those of you here in Draper
know what Widow Maker is, it was an activity, it was something that went on in Draper, that no


                                                 19
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 20
longer happens. So, we do have the ability to change what we do on Traverse Ridge, that is a
change that should take place and, um, I guess for the Board, I reflect back to a Jerry Garcia
quote that I thought was very appropriate, uh, “somebody has to do something and it’s pathetic
that it’s me” but in this case I think somebody has to do something and it can start right here with
the Planning Board just saying no.

Ferris Taylor: If there is mining that needs to be done on this fourth piece, let it happen, let them
do the best they can do with their high wall, but insist that the rest of that property be open space.
And not be, I mean, you can tell when games are being played. Public open space/Private open
space why are we playing these games? We can see through the games. So, um, another favorite
quote is From Michael Crichton’s book Lost World, “extinction is the inevitable result of one of
two things, too much change, or not enough change.” And tonight on these other things that
we’ve talked about and this you have to weigh is now the time to continue what we’re doing and
allow everything to degenerate or to change and say no. Draw a line in the land, in the sand, and
stop the destruction.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Thank you. Next, we’ve got Johnny Vasic and after that Ashley, is it
Muhlstein? Got it.

Johnny Vasic: Thank you. Uh, my name is Johnny Vasic, um, I’m a resident of Sandy but I have
my mother and sister that live in Draper near Geneva mine. Um, we all know that dust us bad for
us, Silicon dust, we know it carries heavy metals, we know it can be bad for lung function, and in
fact my 84 or 85 year old, I’m making her younger than she is, 85 year old mother and 60 year
old sister live in Draper off Day Meadow Drive which is near the mine and they both suffer from
respiratory issues. And, uh, my mom is really concerned about this issue and talking to her just
the other day when she knew this was happening, she said, uh, please tell them that I don’t want
the mine expanded. There are, is, already so much dirt and dust in the air that I’m afraid to go
outside. And that really resonated with me. And you know, there is fear about this expanding,
and she feels fearful that there is already so much dirt, dust and dirt, in her house she does not
even open her windows anymore. So, in addition, the open space they are offering is a nice play
and a nice alternate to what they were, uh, asking for last year, but who in their right mind wants
to recreate in this area. It’s, you know, we can make it open to the public, but we know the wind,
its so windy there all the time, and we know dust is coming off there even with all the mitigation
they’re doing. The, I don’t see how this could possibly, uh, be a good thing, so I’m asking you to
give a negative recommendation. To not, um, allow them, you know, we know this gravel pit
couldn’t be in a worse area with how frequently the wind blows. The last thing we need is for
them to expand. So, please say no to this zoning change. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. So, now we’ve got Ashley and then after that Robert McFarland.

Ashley Muhlstein: I’m Ashley Muhlstein and I live at 312 Steep Mountain Drive. Um, first of all
I’d like to thank you for your service on the Planning Commission. Uh, I am here as a Draper
resident, a Steep Mountain Drive Homeowner, a frequent user of the flight park, and a concerned
mother. I would, however, uh, like to discuss something I am most familiar with professionally.
As a former environmental compliance manger for a large mining company, I’ve been trained
and certified in opacity ratings. Measuring opacity is essentially measuring the degree to which


                                                 20
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 21
fugitive emissions, in this case dust, blocks the light. According to the Utah administrative code,
fugitive emissions, from any source shall not exceed 15% opacity. We live in a PM10 and PM2.5
non-attainment area which makes these rules particularly important. As a resident on Steep
Mountain Drive, I have personally observed opacity standards exceeded regularly. We live in a
unique valley bracketed by tall mountain ranges to the east and west acting like walls of a wind
tunnel. The wind is funneled through the Jordan Narrows. This is the reason the area is an ideal
location for Camp Williams wind turbines, not an ideal location for an open mine covered in
small sediment, and the area where all this material will be processed, as in that funnel.

Ashley Muhlstein: Um, regarding, oh let’s see, sorry. I understand the benefit of having a mine
in close proximity to the City to reduce building costs. I also know these same resources can be
extracted in a lower impact location and lower costs are not worth the cost of the health of the
environment and the health of our citizens. Any level of dust generation is considered air
pollution and an expansion of the mine would increase these violations and be detrimental to the
air quality of the entire valley.

Ashley Muhlstein: Uh, regarding the high wall, it is the mining company’s responsibility to
mitigate the slope issues and back fill. It’s not, uh, the City’s responsibility to rezone additional
land to fix their problem. As a City, I pride Draper in making choices that preserve open space
and recreational areas, because we understand how valuable they are to our community now and
especially moving into the future. Draper isn’t about economic development, it’s about
community and making it the best possible place to live and enjoy.

Ashley Muhlstein: This expansion is unacceptable and detrimental to the general plan and vision
for what Draper is and should be. The General Plan adopted by the City’s, um, City Council
states on page 12 that Draper is a City that recognizes the importance of meeting today’s needs
without, uh, compromising, uh, resources for future generations. On page 16, to protect water
and air quality from degradation and decline, and on page 18, to protect large unspoiled portions
of our Mountain areas. The conceptual Master Plan for the prison site redevelopment designed
by LOCI shows a modern metropolitan including light rail exchanges, offices, and commercial
building, open spaces, and parks. The included conceptual design drawings of the plan show
Steep Mountain drive in the background with a, an essentially reclaimed mine, and no mine in
the background of the picture. And so, uh, the mine is a part of our City’s past but shouldn’t be a
part of our future.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, so, now we’ve got Robert McFarland and then after that
Chris, oh man, Olszewski. Close? You know who you are. Come on down after this. Go ahead
Robert.

Robert McFarland: Yeah, I’m Robert McFarland. I’d lived here for 23 years and moved a few
months ago, and I moved because of our friends and our neighbors in Geneva. I got tired of the
dust, I got tired of the fight, I got tired of the never-ending battle, you know, where they go to the
legislature and they cry for help and then they get granted help. But, you know, at the end of the
day, zoning and this plan that Draper puts together, the 2019 General Plan, there are thousands of
hours of work in that. And do you see any pictures of mines? Do you see any pictures talking
about we want to be an industrial leader? No. It’s about clean tech. It’s about a good place to


                                                 21
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 22
live. It’s about quality housing. It’s about high value properties. There is over a billion dollars
within a few miles of properties within a few miles of this. Geneva bought, they acquired this
land several years after, uh, all of us, you know, Centennial Heights, I bought in that four years
before they got their A5 land. They have A5 rights and I am totally open to them using their A5
rights.

Robert McFarland: What I’m worried about is, you guys look at like concrete stamping on a
building, there is so many moving parts in this that are unknown. The area two and area three,
it’s wide open, area three, goes to you know, you don’t have a chance to litigate it, it goes to
arbitration. It’s wide open. And Perry Homes is involved. And guess what, Perry Homes are the
guys they are working with in Lehi to do mass regrading. You look at the topography of area
two, it’s a big mound of gravel, and it’s terrible for development. What do you think they are
going to want to do? Where are the elevations on all of this? What’s the intention? I mean, there
is not a lot of honesty and transparency.

Robert McFarland: So, if this were just someone saying, I want to rezone to commercial, you
guys would say come back and talk to us. You’ve got to say come back and talk to us because
this thing is half baked and it’s loaded against Draper. You know, the private open space, hum,
what could happen there? The area three, what can happen there, and what is likely to happen
there. You guys put on your business hats and this thing is not in the favor of citizens of Draper
of citizens of the whole Wasatch Front because you are talking about a plume of mine.

Robert McFarland: The other point that I think that has not been addressed, I mean this is not
negotiated, so I’m not putting it on you guys, but that’s the fact. I would negotiate more at the
Planning Commission before it goes to City Council. You’ve got to work out some of these
things. Why not. Are we going to say that they can mine this 27 acres for an unlimited amount of
time? Is that right? I mean, I would say you’ve got three years if you’re going to give them some
land. Um, you’ve got three years the clock is starting and what’s the reclamation plan and go.
And make it clear that all the other stuff is iron clad. There is no mining, there is no mass
regrading, you’re not selling material from any other acres outside of this to fix your high wall.

Chairman Adams: Perfect timing. Thank you. Next we’ve got Chris O. and then, uh, we’ll move
on to Dr. Brian Munch.

Chris Olszewski: Hi, my name is Chris Olszewski. I live at 436 Braid Hill Drive, um, in the
shadow there. Like the other residence have, um, stated I can’t open my windows. I change my
furnace filter every single month. There is pumice all over my house if I open up my windows.
Um, one of the things, um, like other people have said this is not a mistake from Geneva.
They’ve purposely created this. If this was a mistake, they have no business being in the mining
business. So, I, you know, I don’t want Draper to feel like they have to get Geneva out of
something they created on purpose.

Chris Olszewski: The land that Geneva owns was never intended for mining, if so, it would have
been given the M2 when the maps were drawn up. It’s A5. That’s as far as you can get on the
scale in Draper. This is no different than me buying a commercial property that is zoned for two
stories and saying I want to put eight stories on there and continually coming back to you to say,


                                                 22
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 23
come on give me that allowance, I want eight stories. So, um, even if you agree to this it’s not
going to end. They are going to come back to you for rezoning the other 50 acres they want to do
there. Um, in 40 years, I put this nice little map up here and say that’s a whole mountain that has
gone away. That’s not, you know, when you look at that picture there is a whole ridge of a
mountain. Mountains don’t grow back. Yes, you can plant a new tree. You can’t plant a new
mountain. Um, in 40 years that Geneva has been on their land, they have yet to revegetate any
space. I look over that edge every single day when I walk my dogs at flight park. It’s open pit.
They have not revegetated anything, so to say this is what it’s going to look like when it’s
revegetated that’s 75 years from now. That is not something that is going to happen in the next
couple years. So, I just want to say that whatever you decide here, you are deciding what Draper
is going to look like for the next 75-100 years and we don’t need a mine. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Alright, Dr. Brian Moench and then we’ve got Allen Summerhays on
deck after that.

Dr. Brian Moench: I’m Dr. Brian Moench, President of Utah Physicians for a Healthy
Environment. The largest civic organization of health care professionals in the State of Utah and
one of the largest in the western United States. Our membership includes over 450 physicians
many of them practicing clinicians, research specialists, and members of academia. We
specialize in knowing the full extent of the medical research on the health consequences of air
pollution. Air pollution, regardless of the source, is associated with a list of adverse health
outcomes almost as long as the list from smoking cigarettes. Air pollution effects the function of
all major organs increasing the risk of heart attacks, heart failure, strokes, neurologic diseases
like Dementia, and impaired cognition, every type of lung disease, impaired fetal development
and poor pregnancy outcomes, cancer, metabolic diseases like type two diabetes. Air pollution
accelerates the aging process, shortens the average person’s life span, and causes increased rates
of disease related premature death. It even alters genetic function and damages chromosomes and
can impair the health of future generations.

Dr. Brian Moench: Now, beyond these concerns there are unique health threats from the mining
and gravel operations in this State, in particular the one at the point of the mountain. One is
Crystalline Silica. Crystalline Silica is or, excuse me, inhaling Crystalline Silica is analogues to
inhaling microscopic barbed wire. It cuts, and shreds, and scares lung tissue and people who are
chronically exposed are subjected to a disease called Silicosis and then they are subjected to
increased rates of lung cancer. Number two, there are heavy metals in concentrations in the area
higher than what is normal. Soil samples done with our group and others have shown uranium
concentrations four times the average soil concentration and arsenic concentrations twice normal.
And then you have diesel exhaust. Diesel exhaust is a known carcinogen, in fact, studies have
shown that residence who live near industrial operations that involve heavy amounts of diesel
exhaust have a 50% increased risk of lung cancer and the workers have a 300% increased risk of
lung cancer. And one other thing to bear in mind is the residence who live near this operation are
actually exposed to more dust on a continuous basis than the employees are because they can
never go away, they can never go home from work.

Dr. Brian Moench: In short, Draper City Officials should consider their first priority to be the
protection of the health of the residence of Salt Lake and Utah Counties, especially Draper


                                                23
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 24
residence. The decision on whether to appease Geneva should rest solely on what is best for the
community at large, not what is best for Geneva’s profitability.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, we’ve got Allen Summerhays and then after that is Mark
Rich.

Alan Summerhays: My name is Alan Summerhays. I live at 975 East 13450 South. I grew up out
here in Draper before any of this was here. Uh, the graveyard was down there from the prison.
None of this was here at all. I mean I knew the Hansen’s. I grew up with one of the Hansen boys
and, uh, but I think that Draper City’s got to make a deal with, um, Geneva and the Clyde’s. The
Clyde’s have made billions of dollars on this and they’ve got a lot of money in order to come in
and just go to the legislature and take out Steepy entirely basically, and I don’t want to see that as
a Draper resident. I live on six acres, I plan on dying on that six acres, I’m not going to develop it
at all, and I don’t want to see Steepy go away at all. So, if we have one, two, and three and we
take the two and bring it down and leave the high wall of the Draper side alone and maybe cut it
down a little bit. I don’t know. That’s one thing that, Mr. Barrett, I don’t like them touching the
high wall in Draper at all. This one over here on the south, north, side. That is in Draper, correct?
Sir? Yeah, I believe it is.

Alan Summerhays: And, but I’m in favor of Draper City trying to make a deal with Geneva
Rock. I mean it’s just, we’ve been working on this for 12 years or more, and it just makes sense
that, to get it done and that, or their going to buy it, their going to come in an buy the legislature
and come in and their going to do whatever they want with it and then we’re going to be dead. In
75 years when they take this out, in my opinion Lehi sold us out anyway by selling all that
property and that and then selling it to a developer to build homes on it. And, so, that really
screws Draper in my opinion, uh, right of the bat. So, I think we have to make a deal here and
that, that’s my opinion. I’m, I’m, I’m different than most of the people, but I can just see the
money people coming in and buying the legislature and then making up a bill to come in and
take it over and then Draper getting the short end of the stick. And I thank all of you for your
service and what you do here. And I apologize to the people, uh, in the audience that, uh, is for
not doing anything, but I think that not doing anything is the wrong way to go. Try to make a
deal with them and try to make the best deal we can. Thank you very much.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, next we’ve got Mark Rich and after that Shawn Lessig.

Mark Rich: Thank you, um, my name is Mark Rich. I live on 15127 South Moab Way, Draper.
Thank you everyone for being here. I would like to acknowledge that Geneva Rock has the right
to be here tonight to ask for a zoning change. The community also has the right to be here for or
against the asked changes of the present zoning. It needs to be understood that if we the
community say no to the zoning changes, we have not taken any rights away from the
landowners. A5 land is a citizen’s strongest defense for keeping the mountain the way it is. For
the citizens here tonight or listening to the recording later, A5 land could be considered as the
community’s version of grandfathered rights. I’m also, I’m sorry that I must repeat, however, oh
boy. I just need to say this one more time. A5 land could be considered the communities version
of grandfathered rights. It has been mentioned before that A5 land is highly protected land. Why
would the community want to change it to M2 zoning which is the most destructive?


                                                 24
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 25

Mark Rich: So, here we are again, Geneva Rock wants to expand their mining operations.
Geneva Rock is not asking for anything different than before. Geneva Rock has, um, not interest
in the community. It is not a good deal. It was not a good deal then and it is not a good deal now.
Draper and the community have said no before, and we need to say no now. M2 zoning will
allow more open surface land. That means no vegetation or dust mitigation at high elevation and
is constantly, that is constantly bombarded with high winds. Um, uh, the community doesn’t
want to breathe more silica dust. We’re trying to get that down. Um, so, I hope the Planning
Commission will respond with a negative recommendation for all of the zoning changes. The
community wants to keep the mountain intact, or at least what is left of it intact. The community
does not want to expand to be exposed to more harmful silica dust anymore. I’m just going to
stop there. It’s

Chairman Adams: Thank you. So, we’ve got Shan Lessig and then Adrien Dybwad

Shan Lessig: Good evening guys my name is Shan Lessig. I live at 343 East Manila Drive in
Draper and I’m here to actually commend what you guys did for me. I’ve been a lender for 30
years, a construction lender for 30 years, and I just recently built my home on 343 East Manila
Drive. I was held to extremely strict standards, um, to the point where I had 27, uh, SWAPPP
inspections. 27 on a home. Um, no violations, thank god, cause I paid attention to what I’m
supposed to do. I live on a very steep slope that required me to spend an additional $70,000 in a
foundation because of the steep slope and where I sit on Chateau’s Fence was, uh, unfortunately
not built to the way it should have been built. So, we also had to retain our water to the street as
opposed to having any rain gutters to the back. There are 32 houses that sit on that road. I’m the
only house that actually retains the water to the front of the house. If you guys know it’s the very
modern home that was just built a little less than a year ago. Um, what I’m here to do, is I’m here
to commend what you guys do. I deal with you guys on a daily basis and I appreciate that in my,
what I do for a living and what I do for my community.

Shan Lessig: I want you to hold them the exact same accountability that you hold me and
anybody else that builds in Draper, because what we’ve been able to create in Draper as a
community, is a very strong community. People that want to live here and we have a very high
standard. And my wife and I walk every single day, seven days a week. And I see the pit every
single day and I have never seen that pit taken care of the way that the pit should be taken care of
based on the way I was forced to take care my home during construction. And for that reason, I
really believe that you guys have done an amazing job. Keep it up, because that’s why I moved
to Draper from Sandy. And I love living in Draper because of the quality that you’ve done for us.
So, thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Alright, Adrian and then after that we’ve got David Bennett.

Adrian Dybwad: Good evening. Thank you for letting me speak. My name is Adrian Dybwad. I
am a resident up on the bench, uh, in Moab Way. Um, I just want to point out that Perry was
mentioned in the beginning of this as being one of the partners, but there is no mention on any of
the official documentation of the name Perry, at all. Draper also, Staff called the activity in Lehi
mining, as did Geneva, they also called it mining, yet to Lehi it’s mass grading. We do know it’s


                                                 25
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 26
mining but they call it mass grading. I’m scared they are going to do the same thing here with
that area four. And this picture is a really superb picture to see just how much, uh, area four and
area three involve. They are going to mass grade area three, it’s a huge section, and if you
imagine all that exposed going straight over the ridge to the houses that are right there. Already,
with the development at the very end it’s quite bad. That development at the back there is
relatively new. We haven’t had much of a season yet with that. All of that’s been opened up in
the last year. So, we really see a lot of dust from the mine as it was. Were going to expect so
much more from it.

Adrian Dybwad: Um, so, they call the 27 acres it’s actually 77 acres because that area four and
area three you should see as one. When they start on the area four, they will go all the way
through to area three. They will call it mass grading. It’s a mountain how can you develop it?
How can you build businesses or houses there? It’s a mountain, you have to flatten it, that’s what
they want to do. They’re a mining company they mine. They will flatten it, they’ll sell the gravel,
and we’ll all pay the price.

Adrian Dybwad: So, I proposed that, um, these amendments are not harmonious with the overall
character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property due to the additional
types of uses that could be allowed. This area has been called silicon slopes and it is fast
becoming home to large high-tech companies with the likes of Adobe and Pluralsight right near
the mine. The rezone would open the door to mining for many years to come in the fastest
growing residential area, in fact, in the whole of the State of Utah. I propose that the M2 zoning
designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate for an area that is becoming more
dominated by residential uses, heavy industry, diesel exhaust, dust, trucks, and dangerous high
walls have no place in one of the fastest growing places in the State of Utah.

Adrian Dybwad: Of course, lots of people have already mentioned it, the high wall is their own
doing. It’s lets dig up to the property line and then let’s ask for forgiveness and say oh well
we’ve got this situation we have to go into Draper. And by the way, when you give them that
high wall and let them come into Draper you are actually letting them earn more money, so you
are rewarding them. They are the screaming kid that wants that toy and you are going to take it
off the shelf in the store and give it to them? Good luck to you in dealing with that kid tomorrow
because they will be back, and they will want the next toy and they will be screaming louder.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, we’ve got David Bennett and after that Peter Adams.

David Bennett: Hello. My name is David Bennett. I’m a Draper resident at 921 East Spiers Lane
and just very simply I’d like to ask you to vote no. The health of our children, Draper citizens,
and the Wasatch Front community should not be up for negotiation. Second point I’d like to
make is, I was here last time Geneva was here and it was standing room only out there. We’ve
spent most of this meeting also out in the hallway. If they get on the schedule again for the
Planning Commission or City Council, please get a much larger venue. There are so many
Draper citizens that are very passionate about this. Put it in Draper Park Middle School
auditorium or Corner Canyon auditorium where you can see the full impact of all the citizens
that are very passionate about this. Thank you.



                                                 26
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 27
Chairman Adams: Thanks.

Peter Adams: Good evening Council. My name is Peter Adams. I live on Summer Leaf Drive
here in Draper. Um, as you mentioned at the very beginning, um, if you’re last most points are
probably already been taken and much of that is true. Um, one of the points I want to make
though, I mean I agree that, uh, Geneva, um, Rock, it’s an eye sore, um, that points been made.
It’s unhealthy, that points been made. Um, the perspective that I have visually. Fortunately, with
the, um, areas that are being, um, recommended to save, I won’t see the eye sore growing any
more in my direction, which is fortunate.

Peter Adams: But the one thing, um, that I am passionate about is the safety of my family and the
safety of my neighbors and obviously my own safety. I travel the road every day, multiple times,
that leads down, what is it, Highland Drive, to the east frontage road, right there by Maverik, that
goes onto the freeway? Um, Geneva Rock may not necessarily be able to control, um, you know,
the trucks that go in and out of there once they hit that, once they leave their yard, but I can tell
you the irresponsibility of those drivers every day as I’m sitting at a light waiting for it to turn
green I watch their trucks run red lights. And I have had so many close calls. My wife has
mentioned to me that she has almost been run over through an intersection as one of these
massive, you know, belly dumpers, or whatever they call them run a red light you know. And uh,
so, I would like to see, you know, there is probably not much I can do to control what happens
here, um, but I think everybody needs to recognize that any increase in the size of, uh, this
quarry, um, any additional, uh, mining that goes on there is going to increase the traffic that, uh,
you know, is along that road.

Peter Adams: Um, it was mentioned, you know, the expansion, um, in this portion of the valley
with silicon slopes coming on, you know, with the prison site being developed. The demand for
their product is only going to grow and so the greed of this company is going to grow, you know,
with that. As they see that demand, um, you know, whatever they have said they would protect
now, I wouldn’t be surprised if there aren’t some political pressures in the future to change all
that. I recognize they’re a political clout, you know, UDOT is one of their largest customers, and
there is a lot of clout that goes along with that.

Peter Adams: So, from the safety perspective again, if nothing else, if whatever comes out of
this, if they recognize the fact that, uh, they should be responsible to some extent for the
negligence of the contractors and sub contactors that come in and out of there, their lots. The
more traffic that is there the more dangerous it is for my family and myself. And literally every
single day I see big trucks running lights, um, and in the years that I have been siting there I have
never seen a Draper City police officer there monitoring that, so that’s something that needs to
change as well. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, we’ve got one more on here Audrey Albrecht. And then I
just want to be courteous to the people out in the hall, um, do you want to check real quickly if
there was anyone out there that didn’t get the message on how they can contribute if they would
like to.

Chad Smith: That’s only one more card? I know I put in a card.


                                                 27
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 28

Chairman Adams: Uh oh, you’re outing your self as one of the no namers.

Chad Smith: No. I definitely had my name on it.

Chairman Adams: Why don’t you fill one out. You’re welcome to come one up just after
Audrey.

Audrey Albrecht: Hi. I am Audrey Albrecht. 14913 South Manila Drive in Draper. Um, I wasn’t
planning on coming up today. I’m not going to be as eloquent or as well prepared as anyone else
here, but I don’t mean to get emotional, but it is emotional to me. I can’t walk. I live on the same
street and I don’t dare take my daughter out there not just because of Geneva but because of the
air pollution and it’s only going to get worse. I know I’m just reiterating the same point but look
at this sweet girl and think of your families and just I can’t, I don’t dare take her to the park. And
if this mine continues to grow whether it’s just the 27 acres or if they come back and rezone it
again, I can’t imagine how many of us are going to have Lung Cancer. I can guess that the
majority of us don’t smoke or have stopped smoking, but our risk for getting Lung Cancer is so
much more increased here in Salt Lake, um, and Utah County, because of the, like we
mentioned, the mountains and stuff. It is equivalent to smoking like one cigarette a day for each
of us and that’s significant. Not to mention all the wind that’s going to come and who knows it
will be like we are smoking two cigarettes and I can’t imagine my daughter breathing that air
every day. And just, again, I’m not as eloquent, I don’t have all the statistics or anything like
that, but I just want my name to be on there. I want to stand up for my daughter because she’s
not old enough to be up here and stand up for herself and for her kids, and for anyone else that is
going to live here. We love it, it’s beautiful, but if I can’t breathe then what’s the point of living
here. Thanks.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, so I’ve got Chad Smith and Aaron Cooley. Thanks. I’ll
get you in there.

Chad Smith: Hi. Chad Smith, also a Draper resident, 14039 Sagehollow Drive. Um, and I had
some personal anecdotes to share about, uh, you know, play dates where you pick the house
that’s furthest from the mine, or choosing to exercise outside, or away from Draper because it’s a
windy day, um, but a lot of people here are residents and have talked about that. Um, I think the,
uh, the bottom line is we know this is something the residents of Draper are not interested in. It’s
not in the best interest of the City. Um, but I guess the bottom line is that’s not really news, um,
that the overwhelming voice of Draper residence have been strongly against mining expansion.
And it’s not really news because we had a big meeting about this in 2018, right? And then our
local officials, elected officials, instituted a change that would prevent mining expansion.

Chad Smith: So, why are we here? A couple of people have mentioned House Bill 288. Um, and
I understand you are in a difficult position here and I understand there are a lot of moving pieces
and when there are billions of dollars at stake companies can buy influence. And, uh, I realize
that Draper is caught in the middle of that and as a Planning Commission you’re caught in the
middle of that. Um, so, because we feel a threat that if Draper doesn’t work with Geneva then we
risk having the State step in and remove any choice or ability to negotiate on behalf of our


                                                 28
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 29
citizens. With that being the case, I assume you are all already well aware of what the residence
think, what the health ramifications are, how this effects property values, etcetera, etcetera.

Chad Smith: My ask is that, um, I mean in an ideal world that we, any appeal for expansion
would be, would be shut down. Um, if you do feel compelled to allow this. I have a request.
Please add a note to any positive recommendation you may give that you only do so under duress
and fear that not doing so would result in the project happening anyway and in a way that would
be even worse for Draper citizens. And if Draper City must negotiate, please let those
negotiations not just center on deeding over land, um, that is likely not, well. I am running out of
time.

Chad Smith: I’ll just say let’s focus on our health. There are a lot of things that Geneva could do
to make our health of Draper citizens better today. I have a big old list and I don’t have time to
go through it. Um, but, uh, things like their silt sand piles, the garbage sand that’s left over that
they’ve done nothing to take away since the mine opened. Um, they could burry that, they could
cart it away, they could revegetate has been mentioned. They could stop working when, if it’s
too windy to mitigate, it’s too windy to work. Uh, there are a lot of things they could do. Please.
Thank you. Thank you for your help.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. You’ll have to excuse me. I lost track right there. What was your
name that just, you came up? Chad Smith. Okay, give me just a second here. So, that was Chad
Smith. Your name?

Aaron Cooley: Aaron Cooley.

Chairman Adams: Okay, stand by. So, Aaron Cooley’s next and then after that we’re going to
have Mark Kimsey. Go ahead.

Aaron Cooley: Aaron Cooley, 361 Manti Drive. Uh, I live just a little bit down the hill from this.
Uh, appreciate the opportunity to come and comment on this and, uh, that you’re willing to listen
to the citizens of this great City. Uh, when I was in, I want to say second grade, I learned the
longest word in the English language. Anybody know what the longest word in the English
language is? It’s pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis and I just thought that was
hilarious that there was a word that long in the dictionary. It’s like 53 letters. And it turns out that
word is just a fancy way of saying Silicosis. I never thought when I was in second grade
memorizing the longest word in the dictionary that I would be memorizing a disease that I would
later in life be put at risk of actually developing. And, just really briefly did a little look on the
American Lung Association’s website. It says Silicosis damages the lining of the lung air sacs,
once this begins it leads to scarring, in some situations to a condition called Progressive Massive
Fibrosis. Um, people with acute Silicosis experience cough, weight loss, tiredness, may have
fever, or sharp chest pain. Uh, you might hear wheezing or cracking when your healthcare
provider listens to your lungs. It increases the risk of other problems such as Tuberculosis, Lung
Cancer, and chronic Bronchitis. Doesn’t sound like a ton of fun.

Aaron Cooley: Um, the previous picture that was up here showed this really ugly high wall and
how beautiful its going to look when the high wall goes away. I don’t know if there is a way to


                                                  29
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 30
bring that up. I’m sure it will look nicer, but that big ugly high wall right now is the only thing
protecting us from this dust, from these fine Silica particles that are going to come in and rip our
lungs apart. I’ll tell you that I’ve here the argument that Geneva owns this property, they can do
whatever they want with it, that’s half true. They own it, but they can’t do whatever they want
with it, it’s your job as a Planning Commission, and City Council’s job, and our job as citizens to
decide what that should be zoned for and when they bought that property in about 2000, they
factored the zoning into what they paid for it. If we don’t give them this additional expansion, I
promise they are going to be okay. They’re going to be able to retire comfortably, sleep at night,
they are not going to have ton of problems.

Aaron Cooley: Um, the prison is going away. The point of the mountain is changing. This is
becoming not an industrial area, this is a residential area, this is a high-tech area, this is one of
the most desirable places in the State and the entire Rockies to live. It’s called the Silicon Slopes
note the Silica Slopes. Now, I’ve also heard that there is a concern that the State might step in
and force us to do this anyway. I would just like to say sometimes you have to do the right thing
regardless of the consequences. Um, if we don’t do this then there will be a lot of anger and a lot
of frustration. Maybe Ben McAdams won’t be the only Democrat. Um, finally, this is my
daughter Charlotte and she asked me this morning, what is more important, which would you
rather have $100 or a healthy baby. I think it’s a fair question. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, so now we’ve got Mark Kimsey and after that Lisa
Holcomb.

Mark Kimsey: My name is Mark Kimsey. I live off of Steep Mountain. Just wanted to be here to
voice or provide a voice for the tech community. I am that geek that you wanted to move here. I
actually relocated to Draper three years ago for a tech opportunity. I also had another opportunity
from your great company Amazon, up in Seattle, decided not to go there. I came here and I came
here because of the recreation. I came here because I could walk outside my house in Draper and
hit those mountains. They are beautiful. I want to keep them. I think there is irony that your
actually, you know, that we’re here talking about removing the point from the point of the
mountain. And, you know, the Silicon Slopes have great branding, they’re going to have to
constantly change that image as we constantly change this mountain. Um, as easily as tech
people can move in, we can move out. So, the voice from the tech community, the people that I
talk to, we love being here because there is that availability to public land and public space and
the beautiful mountains. So, thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. So, now Lisa Holcomb and then after that we’ve got Neil
McGarry.

Lisa Holcomb: Hi, Lisa Holcomb, 1884 E Vista Ridge Court, Draper. Um, I won’t resound
everything that, all the other concerns, um, but want to say that the House Bill is concerning. I
understand that puts a lot of pressure, um, on everybody. And we don’t want to be a community
that is threatened. We want to do what we believe our morals; our ethics of Draper represent us
as a City. We do the right thing. If somebody else comes behind us and does the wrong thing,
that’s not on us, that is not on us as a City. We want to stand proud. Right now, there are so
many eyes on this, on Draper, on the County, the City, Statewide. What is going to happen with


                                                 30
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 31
this. We are in the limelight right now. Remember a few years ago when they wanted to bring a
homeless shelter into Draper and people said oh no. Do we want to be known as the City that
turned down a homeless shelter, but brought in mining? I don’t want to. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, we’ve got two more and then we’re going to take a quick
break. So, we’ll go ahead and let you go Neil and then we’ll have River, is it Steimle, after that
and then we’ll take a break. Um, alright.

Neil McGarry: Thank you. My name is Neil McGarry. I live at 15278 South Steep Mountain
Drive. My house is actually among the closest residence that’s on that map there to the proposed
rezone. I want to thank, uh, the volunteer Commissioners here for, you know, this hearing on a
clearly sensitive issue. The current dust suppression systems at Geneva are totally inadequate.
Um, I’m constantly working at cleaning up dust inside my house and I run supplemental air
cleaners in there 24 by 7. I can’t leave the windows open in my house since the dust moves in so
quickly. Expanding the mine would only make this problem worse for myself and many others in
the community. As I said before, Geneva has not reclaimed or revegetated any of their land up to
this point. Their guise of mass grading for mining is a lie on their part and they have proved to be
untrustworthy in front of this Committee before. They are simply a bad neighbor to all in Draper.
The mines expansion would be many hundreds of feet above I15, a notoriously windy area, and
would affect local residence as well as those living miles and miles away throughout the valley.

Uh, the proposed amendments are not consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the
Draper City General Plan. Um, a change to M2 zoning uses are inappropriate for an area that
becoming more dominated by residential uses and soon to be home to a technology center at the
prison site, that we want to attract high profile companies to and not scare them away.

Uh, land use and development goals of Draper include, uh, promoting the public health, safety,
convenience, and a general welfare of its residence. Uh, an expanded mine is not compatible use
next to a residential zone. Draper City set a precedence 20 years ago not to be a mining town and
they should continue with this precedent. The conservation easement or open space trade for a
rezone is simply not worth it. I urge the Commission to forward a negative recommendation to
the City Council. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, River we’ll go ahead and hear your comment and then
we’ll take a quick break.

River Steimle: Hello, I am River Steimle. I live on 67 E Manila Drive and I’m here to say, that
I’m here on behalf of all the children in Draper and I want to grow up and be proud of my
hometown. I say that Geneva Rock has never had major boos or cheers but today I change that. I
am putting a boo on the rock. All of their mining will put dust in all the air taking away homes of
animals, your breath, and the chance to go paragliding. We all hate the dust. Friends of ours did a
study that showed mining here would have a major impact on wind in the valley, which will
disrupt weather patterns and the snow. Let’s vote to keep the greatest snow on earth. And lastly, I
have heard that there is Silica in the dust which is known to cause lung issues. My lungs and the
lungs of my friends are still developing. Please help them grow healthy. To everyone in this



                                                31
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 32
room I issue, this issue is present during voting season, I can’t vote yet, so, make sure that you
do.

Chairman Adams: Thanks River. [clapping] I’ll let that slip just a little bit there. Alright, let me
go ahead and grab this last one. We are going to go ahead and take a five-minute bio break.

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: Hey my notes are on my card if I could give this to you

Chairman Adams: Yeah, yeah give me your card and then

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: My notes are on here. Can I give it to you in a minute?

Chairman Adams: Yeah, totally. So, just time out. We’re going to take a break right now.

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: Oh, right now? And then I’m first?

Chairman Adams: So, just keep that handy and then we’re going to take a five-minute bio break
and come right back in.

Motion: Vice Chairman Hawker: Mr. Chair. I’ll make a motion to recess.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Uh

Second: Commissioner Squire: Second.

Chairman Adams: Alright, motion to recess passes.

Chairman Adams: Alright, we’ll give a 60 second countdown. Okay, we are re-adjourn here in
the next 20 seconds if you’ll grab your seats. Alright, thanks for participating in that quick break.
So, now were going to go, start back up with the public hearing, we’ve got a few more. Uh, and
then we’ll deliberate. So, why don’t we go ahead and start back up. If you’ll just come up state
your name and your address and you can hand me your car when you’re finished.

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: Hi, Jason Porter Rickabaugh from Riverton, Utah. Um, 214 Glen Ave.
Um, yeah, I just wanted to say that I am, uh, opposed to the mining. I am also very concerned
about making, uh, the earth product extraction a, uh, permitted use as opposed to conditional. I
mean this is obviously a very volatile, or has a potential to have a very negative health impact on
the community and should be, uh, watched out over by the City government. So, I believe it
should remain a conditional use. Um, I’d also like to thank the Commission and all the staff and
Mr. Baird for representing his client.

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: Um, I also wanted to point out, cause this often gets, uh, confused that
the DOGM, doesn’t, the permit that they hand out is one to clean up after yourself. It doesn’t
grant extra rights. It doesn’t give approval to the cities or other municipalities or DAQ. I mean,
they have a very specific mandate and they do a very good job doing that, and um, I’m glad that
they’re here tonight. I. One thing that I wanted to clarify is like, number one, uh, the elevation


                                                 32
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 33
they had to use to produce this map is old. As you can tell from that, uh, conveyer belt there that
doesn’t really have that big arc in it. So, things are a lot steeper than they appear even with the
exaggerated elevation from Google Earth. Um, you know, Geneva made a six-million-dollar
mistake when they mined that. That ridge is supposed to be at 33 degrees according to the City
of Lehi. Now the division can only hold them to 100% grade or 45 degrees, uh, per the
reclamation contract, but the City of Lehi has a slope requirement of 33 degrees, so that’s
something to keep in mind.

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: And, I have heard the division say before that Geneva is the best in the
industry, well if that’s true, I mean, it makes one wonder whether, that this was intentional. Um,
somebody said earlier that, uh, Geneva was trying to bulldoze the City of Draper and, uh, force
them into allowing them to do this. Now, one thing that I’ve always been kind of disappointed
about is that, that right there is supposed to be a housing development. Right? You guys saw the
overlay of the concept plan, and granted the concept plan doesn’t need to be anything like the
final product, but do you really see, uh, pipes and roads up to that summit on 100% grad or
greater? Or just slightly under that? I mean, does that look like planning to you?

Jason Porter Rickabaugh: And, uh, Mr. Summerhays, you know I really appreciated everything
he has done for the city over the years. I think he’s right; you know, the City needs to make a lot
of considerations about this, but I’m sure the HB288 is not going to go through. I mean they
might as well un-incorporate Draper and all the other cities, I mean you guys are responsible for
zoning and to take away that power at the State level just seems ridiculous. And I don’t think
they’re going to do it. And I think the City needs to stand up to them and they’ll never take the
front of that ridge and we need to keep pushing forward and doing the right thing. And, um there
is a lot of other things I’d like to say, but I really appreciate your time. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thanks. Alright, so two more we’ve got, it looks like Karis Leon Wingster
and then right after that Diane Hooper. Oh, perfect. Come on down. Did I say it ok?

Karis Wingster: You said it perfect

Chairman Adams: Perfect. Alrighty you just come back up, restate it so

Karis Wingster: My name is Karis Wingster. I live at 493 Elizabeth Day Cove, so I pretty much
live down below the hill there. Um, yeah, I’m opposed of Geneva with the expansion as well.
Um, one of the gentlemen made some point. First of all, I drive trucks for a living. So, I’m
familiar with the diesel, everybody’s complaining about the diesel, but which some of you guys
have to realize that without trucks you’re not going to get a lot of your stuff. Um, some of the
problem’s you guys are talking about, one gentleman was mentioning, the only reason I was
speaking because I need to defend some of the truck drivers. Okay.

Karis Wingster: So, Geneva do have some good points cause you know, you shut down the
plants, a lot of drivers won’t have jobs. So, you know, you need the plant. I don’t too much care
about an expansion, but you know we need our jobs. Truck drivers need the work. We need, you
know, to do our stuff. The light down there at the Maverik places, the light changes, excuse me
I’m nervous because I’ve never speak in front of a big crowd before. The light at the Maverik it


                                                33
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 34
changes too fast, so, and I’m not excusing drivers from running lights. I’m not one of them, but
the guys with the, the dumps, that have two trailers, the light changes fast, and what the
gentleman was talking about is he might be in front of the light, beneath the light signal, and
when they probably see it he’s already beneath the light he’s making changes that he seen two
trailers make that turn that’s going on. They need more time at the light. So, I’m not making
excuses for it, uh, I’m just trying to clear that up. You know until you get yourself a rig you can
kind of see what is going on. We have cameras to try to see what is going on, but about this thing
here with Geneva I, like I said, I’m against it because of pollution. I see all the stuff going on, so,
like I said I’m against it and that’s pretty much all I have to say about it. So, thank you for my
time.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. And then Diane Hooper.

Diane Hooper: Hello. Diane Hooper. I live at 472 Steep Mountain Drive. Um, our home is right
in front of the mountain. Um, we love living here in Draper. Um, I’m not from here originally, I
lived in New York most of my life and moved out here about 15 years ago. Um, my husband and
I were debating, when we got married, if we were going to buy a house here in Utah and stay.
And we weighed out a bunch of different pros and cons and we always loved Draper. We were
living in Sandy at the time and we loved Draper and we thought we eventually want to move and
live in Draper. Well, I didn’t know about the mine or the issues with, uh, sand, or silica, or any of
that when we bought our house five years ago. Um, so of course I’m coming to learn about all of
these different things, um, in the last few years and the more research that I do the more, um,
afraid I get of letting, um, letting the mine be expanded any further than what it already is. Um,
specifically because of the health concerns, uh, with pulling all of that, uh, pollution into the air.

Diane Hooper: We already have trouble with pollution here in the State, um, with you know, cars
and things like that. Um, but, I’m. I have my children here tonight with me and I. My son. I
didn’t want to come up here and speak. I am afraid of speaking in public and, but my son is here
with me tonight and, you know, he said mom go up there and talk. He’s like, this is important. I
want to bring them to these meetings and have them understand that there is a process that we
have to go through, um, you know when things don’t seem right to us. We have the ability to
come up and talk and present, um, maybe not so eloquently sorry. But, um, we can state our
feelings and our observations and at this point in time I just feel that we don’t need any extra
help here in the Salt Lake Valley, uh, with our pollution problem. And the mine causes pollution,
it causes health concerns and I’ve heard of lots of people, um, getting really sick from this silica
dust. And so, that’s my concern. I love Draper. I love living here in Utah, it’s amazing, uh, and I
came from a pretty amazing place. So, I would just like to see our City stay amazing, you know,
and then my son, I think he wanted to just say a little something.

Mr. Hooper: I don’t like Geneva Rock. I hate the poor air quality were getting here, and I like
Draper as my hometown. And I don’t want them to rezone.

Diane Hooper: And maybe my little girl wants to say something. Go ahead. You can talk.

Ms. Hooper: I don’t know what I want to say.



                                                  34
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 35
Diane Hooper: Oh, time is up. Thank you.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay, so, before I proceed, I’ve got a little tally list
up here. We’ve got quite a few items that have brought up, and this is why we appreciate this
portion of the meeting. It really does. Uh, you know we live here too, we have our, uh, ideas
when these things come before us. So, we really want to, uh, tell you thanks for sharing your
input because it does help expand our thought process in all this. So, if there is not anything that
is going to be added we’ve hit a couple, these aren’t all the topics, but dust and air quality has
been by far number one. Uh, we’ve got the high wall problem over in Lehi has been mentioned.
Got House Bill 288. We’ve got the trucks, the rock chips, all those things. I think we’ve got the
whole gamut up here. So, with that, um, I’m just going to ask if there is anything else that hasn’t
been talked about that needs to be discussed. If not, we’ll go ahead and close the public hearing
portion. Do you have something that will, that hasn’t been brought up? You bet. Just go ahead
and hand that to me and well wrap it up right after you.

Mark Evans: Uh, Mark Evans. I live at 14928 Manila Drive. Uh, I’ve never been to one of these
zoning things before, but from what I see, based upon the first propositions, uh, there was
conditions, you know. We wanted the decorative concrete, or the. Why is it that these people can
get away with doing absolutely nothing for dust mitigation for the most part? You see one water
cannon out there every now and then. For the area they have disturbed there should be 50 of
those running 24/7. They are not making any effort to reclaim any part of the mine that they’re
done with, they’re making no, it seems to me that they are just tearing it as fast as they can to get
away with as much as they can as fast as they can. Why can’t there be some conditions put on
them. Okay, maybe we could compromise let you take some of the steep slope based on make an
effort, to stop the dust, make and effort to re-plant some of this. Some of this, you’re not digging
everywhere. Fix some of this. Just don’t let it keep flying. Make a small effort for the health of
people. That’s all.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. I appreciate that. I stand corrected, so, dust can be split into air
quality and dust mitigation. How’s that? Thank you. Alright, we’ll go ahead and close the public
hearing portion. We appreciate everybody. Thank you so much for being courteous. Like I said,
we’re all neighbors we all want a good quality of life and have businesses strive here and strike
that delicate balance between living here and, uh, having healthy business function here. So, uh,
Commissioners, there’s a couple things. What I’d like to do, is we’d love to invite the applicant
up in a moment, but first while this is all fresh, I’d like to just be able to discuss some of these
items. So, while it’s fresh what are your thoughts. Let’s talk about some of these items that have
been brought up.

Commissioner Squire: I feel like you’re looking at me so I will start. And I will say many of you
have come to several of these meetings since I’ve been on the Planning Commission just shy of
two years. This is the third time we’ve heard, uh, an application concerning, um, the mining.
And, um, I would say the Planning Commission has led the charge, all of us up here. The last
vote was unanimous to remove mining from the code, um, as a, as a use at all. And for that we
have been punished greatly. So, we have led the charge. We have been fighting this and, um,
Geneva sticking it too us for doing that, and I want you guys to know that.



                                                 35
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 36
Commissioner Squire: Um, they have gone to the State, there has been reference to House Bill
288 that went through last year. That is not an idol threat. That was signed by the Governor. And
I have talked to legislators about this, I was up at the Capital three times last week on different
issues and when I was there, I asked specifically about House Bill 288. It is not idle. It is real.
And we need to figure out how we need to approach this as a City. And if we want to fight
Geneva Rock and continue to say no, the State will step in. And then we run the risk of all four
of those areas being mined. I just want to be really clear about that. I have voted no and against
Geneva Rock every single time, so do not misunderstand my motives and anyone else’s motives
up here. We all live here, as Andrew has said, and, um, we want a nice place to live too. Wanted
to start with that. And Mike, Mr. Barker, sorry. Could you maybe address House Bill 288 a little
bit or is there somebody? I understood somebody was prepared to do that. I don’t know if you’re
the best person.

Mr. Barker: Do you have any specific questions. I mean, it is law, um

Commissioner Squire: What does it enable the State to do? I would like to understand that
specifically. In the, uh, public forum.

Mr. Barker: What House Bill 288 did was establish mining operations with gravel, I’ll say gravel
mining operations, as a critical infrastructure material. So, the gravel itself is a critical
infrastructure material. Uh, it created new definitions for critical infrastructure, uh, operations,
mining operations. Um, and so it amended, um, the statute in State Code called LUDMA which
is the Land Use Development Management Act, which is kind of the State zoning, if you will,
that cities have to follow as well as counties. Uh, and so it amended portions of LUDMA. Um, it
also, um, my understanding is the original bill, um, dealt with the issue of, um, expansion, mine
expansion into lands adjacent to areas that are currently being mined. Um, I guess as a
compromise that portion was taken out of the bill, but what was inserted at the end of it was
basically, I mean it’s not a traditional moratorium, because a moratorium generally has a time
frame on it, but there is, we’ve talked about this prohibition against the City taking adverse
action against, um, gravel mining while that is still law, and it is still law, and so that’s why
you’ve alluded to the vote last year by the Planning Commission to recommend that, um, mining
be prohibited in the M2 zone. Well, that portion of HB 288, really, the actions, if the City had
done that, they would have probably been in violation of HB 288. So, that’s why we stopped
moving that forward.

Mr. Barker: What’s not specifically in the Bill, but what was definitely, uh, the Legislatures
intent, was that the mining operators get together with cities and counties and have a dialogue to
see if some of these issues such as expansion of mining, etcetera, could be negotiated and come
to a resolution without the legislature having to impose itself, if you will, and make those
decisions. So, Draper City has been involved with a coalition of other local governments this
past summer and fall. Geneva was represented as well as other mining operators to sit down
around the table and figure out what the issues are, is there anything the sides can agree on to
take to the Legislature. Well, the talks kind of stalled, um, and that’s really why you’re not
seeing any new bills this term, or this session and I don’t know what the Legislature will or will
not do if we, if the City approves or denies Geneva’s application. That would be purely
speculative, but HB 288 is in place, it puts restrictions, you know, on the City’s ability to


                                                36
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 37
regulate. And, um, what the future holds, I don’t know. I don’t have a crystal ball and I don’t
know, um, so, kind of a rambling way I hope of answering your question but

Commissioner Squire: I think that was a fair answer. Thank you. Yes.

Commissioner Van Hoff It sounds to me like, what it’s saying, is if their asking for a rezone
here. They already have M2 on some of this other area where they can mine, but it doesn’t say
we have to provide them the M2 zone.

Mr. Barker: No. Curt law does not require the City to provide that.

Chairman Adams: So, back to, uh Mary, what you’re mentioning. We’ve seen this, this is the
third time, correct? That Geneva’s applied that we can recall.

Commissioner Squire: Since I’ve been here.

Chairman Adams: And so, there is one, here is a couple observations in those meetings. I was
actually not in attendance, I think, for the second one, but for the first I was. And, at that meeting
all tell you what’s absent from this meeting. We had the hang glider pilots in here, and the major,
that’s changed, they are not here, if you’ve noticed that, we didn’t get anybody in here this time.
Well, okay, I don’t want to make general, alright, okay, before I step in it, let me just say that I
did not hear to the extent in this meeting anything like that first meeting. That first meeting was
if you cut into this hill you will ruin the natural phenomenon that gives us the wonder of the
thermals and whatever we have up there. And then after that meeting I was offered to be taken
tandem, which I declined because isn’t that where they can just strap you on and strap you off
just as easily. So that was, so I declined, because I knew nothing about it, but in all seriousness
that argument whether it’s gone or not has been resolved because that was one of the biggest
fears is cutting into that Steep Mountain and that with this meeting point that is not on the table
anymore is to cut into Steep Mountain.

Chairman Adams: So, one of the things that we are gaining from this. And a development
agreement is something that the City can put together where some, it’s really just horse trading
with what our existing codes and rules are. And so, if the City’s not getting something back, we
always look at development agreements and go then why in the world would we do it. And
sometimes we get back a park, a trail, sometimes we get back money to go invest back into
whatever it is, and in this case, uh, for this development agreement even though we’re not voting
or passing on recommendations on that, um, what is a plus is that the front side of that is
protected, the back side of that is protected. Area three, I don’t think can even be seen from the
ground anywhere in Draper, and I may be mistaken on that, remember I’m the 35-foot piece of
string with a red balloon guy. So, but from my assessment that area three cannot be seen. So, to
me that is one win for the City and Jennifer, I don’t want to get off this slide, but the general
assessment is the amount of area asking to be mined between this application and the one in
2018, the mining area is less. Is that a fair statement?

Jennifer Jastremsky: Correct. The 2018 application had, uh, 72.97 acres that they were looking to
mine.


                                                 37
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 38

Chairman Adams: Okay. So, those are the two things that I am seeing on here. The air quality
has not gotten any better, not one bit better, and if anything, it’s getting worse. And it’s the air
quality, it’s the dust mitigation and whether we said yes or no for any of these for these last three
meetings that’s not gotten better. So, I’m not here to say that this is the best solution. I’m here to
point out that over time these negotiations are getting better and it’s kind of like when I used to
fight with my sister, I could work it out with her, or it would go to mom and dad and that’s really
what the State and the Legislature, you know, in a roundabout way had wanted to happen is you
kids work it out and if you can’t then we’ll step in. And it would be a darn shame if we don’t
work this out and the State steps in and I think Allen, you know, said something, Allen
Summerhays, said something to the fact if they just go in there then it’s a fight that, one we don’t
have the money as homeowners here in Draper to just individually go fight that on the Hill. We
can be really mad and we can fight it there, but this is almost a, not a last chance, but this is the
way it was meant to be is to have the City, where we live, to have a say so on what’s going to
happen to our environment and to our future.

Chairman Adams: We want to have that balance between business and, uh, high quality of life
with health and, uh, all the natural resources being utilized to the best of our ability. So, I see that
as, uh, two major wins that we’re actually not hurting that, uh, hang glider resource or natural
phenomenon and we’re preserving the look. Again, it does nothing to mitigate the dust that is a
total different deal and when we have, we’ve got some resources here tonight that I’d also like to
get involved, uh, we have people from DOGM here correct? And I’m sure some of that, we want
to talk about what that even means and why this is, if it is better, but it does nothing to address,
remember a good negotiation, a wise man told me, he was president of the Senate years and
years ago, I’m related to him, he said hey if everybody is mad at the end it was a good
negotiation. So, if one party is super happy then the other party really got a sock to them.

Chairman Adams: So, the way I see this is there are probably four things that are being asked for
hear and I’m seeing us, uh, getting two of those, but we’re still losing on two fronts, so I don’t
know what we can do about that. And I am concerned about the air quality and I guess less than
air quality but the last point that was made, is I’ve lived here what, I grew up in Sandy and I’ve
lived here almost 18 years, 17 years and I’m not seeing any mitigation. I’m not seeing anything.
It’s that act of god if the dust starts blowing past 25 miles an hour, they just throw their hands up
in the air and say well there is nothing we can do about it. And I think that’s the way I’ve
understood it through the meetings I’ve sat through.

Chairman Adams: Anyway, I don’t get to vote but I just wanted to bring that history into what’s
happened at least in my short time here. Uh, just to be able to see what’s changed and what’s got
better. Uh, as we keep talking about this and again, wouldn’t it be a shame if this went straight
out of the laps of the siblings and went up to the parents and they, you know, in essence tattled to
mom and that’s what they handed down to us, is that they’re carving into that mountain and they
have everything, and we lost everything and they got everything. You know, we lost everything,
they got everything they wanted we lost everything we wanted. So, that would be a darn shame,
and that’s what I have to say about that.

Christina Oliver: Mr. Chairman.


                                                  38
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 39

Chairman Adams: Yeah?

Christina Oliver: I’d like to request that you make a motion. It is now 10:00.

Chairman Adams: Perfect. So, if we

Mr. Barker: Actually, the rules, if the matters already being heard then we can keep, as this is the
last item on the Agenda.

Chairman Adams: Perfect. So, if we had an agenda item number six right now, we’d have to, uh,
put a motion into continue.

Mr. Barker: Once you were done, we’d have to move to continue.

Chairman Adams: Perfect. So, you’re saying we’ve got all night.

Mr. Barker: Bring your sleeping bag.

Chairman Adams: Alright. Sorry Staff. So, alright, I don’t have a speech prepared that was it. So,
that’s that. Alright, go ahead.

Commissioner Squire: When may we hear from the DOGM?

Chairman Adams: Yeah. I. Would that be okay? I don’t want to cut you guys short and cut off
your train of thought from all that public comment, but would that be okay to have them come up
and talk to us with what they’ve prepared. Alright. Can we do that? Whose here for. Oh hi. Yeah,
if you just want to state your names and kind of who you’re with and, uh, we’re all just regular
civilians here, so tell us what you do.

April Abate: My name is April Abate I am a, um, Geologist and Environmental Scientist. I work
for Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining and, uh, my field area is, uh, over the point of the mountain
mine, Sage Canyon Permit as well as the South Hansen Permit, so I’m the inspector for Geneva.

Paul Baker: My name is Paul Baker I am the Minerals Programs Manager for the Division of Oil,
Gas, and Mining.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. So, what questions do we have for these folks?

Commissioner Squire: I have a few. Or, if anyone else so, I don’t want to monopolize the
conversation. Um, I’m curious about the regulation. There has been a lot of discussion about dust
mitigation and reclamation maybe being the largest two issues. Um, and then, and so can you
address those and maybe some of the concerns you heard and I’m also curious what ability
Draper City has, if any, to regulate beyond what the State regulates.




                                                39
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 40
Paul Baker: I guess I’ll try to, try to answer that as well as I can. So, um, our regulations say that
compliance with the Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining does not mean that somebody is
necessarily complying with other agencies requirements. So, we don’t enforce those and, um,
and it doesn’t, uh, negate the responsibility to comply. Um, as far a dust mitigation is concerned,
um, we have very limited authority for dust control, um, for requiring dust control. Primarily
that’s done by the Division of Air Quality and we rely primarily on that permit. Um, our rules do
require concurrent reclamation where that’s possible. The rules basically say that when an
operator is done mining in a certain area that they have to reclaim that area, but again that’s very
difficult for us to tell an operator your done with this particular area. I mean, it’s really part of
the mine plan and for the operator to decide that, and so it’s really hard for us to do that.

Commissioner Ogden: So, is it your organization that is responsible for, like, grading and like
the, what happened here with this wall that everybody is talking about. And is that wall in
compliant with your, uh, regulations currently?

Paul Baker: Yes, it is in compliance. The rules require that it be, well I guess I could say sort of
in compliance. The rules require that it be no steeper than a one to one slope and as it stands right
now its about 1.15 to 1. So, as far as the rules are concerned, uh, it is in compliance. Yes.

Commissioner Ogden: That doesn’t sound like it’s compliant.

Paul Baker: Well, that being said, um, after the, um, the high wall was developed the plan was
modified to say the high wall would be 1.7 or 1.75

April Abate: 1.7 to 1 is what Geneva changed their mine plan to, so that means at reclamation the
high wall is supposed to be left at 1.7 to 1 at reclamation, but their still active right now.

Commissioner Ogden: So, that gives them a period of time to where they don’t have to be
compliant then is what you’re saying?

Paul Baker: Well no, well I guess you could say during mining, um, we’re talking about at
reclamation it’s supposed to be 1.7 to 1.

Commissioner Ogden: I understand.

Paul Baker: Yeah, that’s right. So, during mining it can be steeper than that. It can even be
steeper than 1 to 1 as long as they reclaim back to, I mean, at a minimum 1 to 1, but in this case
1.7 to 1.

Commissioner Ogden: Would it be possible to reclaim that as it is without touching Draper’s
property?

April Abate: It would not be compliant with their mine plan. That’s the issue we’re in.




                                                 40
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 41
Chairman Adams: Well, one of the things we saw on that graph. We saw four colored lines and
the light blue one at the bottom was the end result that’s actually buildable. That’s the only one
that you could build homes on and put a new day break if you will.

Commissioner Ogden: But that’s if they graded everything out.

Chairman Adams: That’s if they chopped clear from Lehi over to area, where area number two in
our proposed plan right now. They. It would chop all that away. That light blue line would be
from, where all of them intersect here off to my left, to the audience’s left, that’s Lehi and the
higher slope is Draper. And all that would go away. That big black mountain would go away.
And what their talking about right now is that they’re. Does this help you on this graphic? It
helped me to understand what’s compliant and what’s not.

Commissioner Ogden: Yes.

Chairman Adams: And what the problem is. The problem lies in that if they. To get this
compliant they’ve got to chop into Draper. Because they’ve dug such upon reclamation. Is that
correct?

Commissioner Ogden: To be compliant with their reclamation plan.

Paul Baker: I think that that’s a fair statement. Um, and the reason I say that is because the
operator has talked about and actually proposed filling that slope to bring it to 1.7 to 1 and in that
case, it would not go into Draper.

Chairman Adams: That’s the green line. See? Fill, alternative number two. Them bringing in fill
to get a reclaimed slope that is, uh, not touching Draper. So, alternative number two doesn’t
touch Draper. Uh, alternative three does.

Paul Baker: Yes. And we. There are two engineers in our office. Two professional engineers that
have looked at that alternative and, um, have decided that basically would just not be stable. I
mean, it might in the beginning, but um, over time it would not be stable. And besides that, I
would point out that, um, that fill has to come from somewhere. And so, it would basically have
to be mined material.

Commissioner Hawker: Are you saying the fill alternative two, the green line, would be unstable.

Paul Baker: Yes.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay. Just wanted to make sure I heard that

Commissioner Squire: So, what are the dangers of leaving the high wall as it is now? Of not
allowing any work to be done on it on Draper’s side in your opinion. And we’ve covered the
green line, um, that you think, that someone has come to the conclusion in your department that
that would be unstable, correct?



                                                 41
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 42
Paul Baker: Right.

Commissioner Squire: Um, what about the other options?

Paul Baker: So, um as far as leaving it as it is, um, I would say it’s marginally stable. Um, when
we visited the site, oh a little over a year ago, I mean, you could hear the whole-time rocks
rolling down the hill. I mean, like I say it’s marginally stable and that is what it would be. I
mean, it would just be that high wall indefinitely.

Commissioner Squire: So, it’s sloughing now. Is that right? We saw some pictures.

Paul Baker: Yes. Yeah, a limited amount. I mean it meets regulatory requirements, but it is
sloughing to some degree. Yeah. Like that right there.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay. So, I’m just trying to wrap my brain around this. So you’re saying
if we as a Commission and then the City Council, let’s say we’d say no to this, you’re saying that
somehow your organization oversaw this, allowed it to happen or didn’t allow it to happen, and
there is not a way to make it stable without going into Draper. Am I kind of hearing you right
here or am I making assumptions here?

Paul Baker: No. I think that’s pretty close. I mean, I think at the time that this was done it was in
compliance with the plan and it was in compliance with the rules, but it was not in compliance
with Lehi City.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay.

April Abate: So, I should just mention that originally the mine plan was 1 to 1 then the Lehi
requirement came out, or was in place. When we realized that we alerted the company to it. They
changed their mine plan to be in compliance with Lehi. So, it was just the way the course of
events essentially played out.

Commissioner Van Hoff: So, to reclaim this, to put it to a slope that’s stable enough to be
comfortable with they would have to mine someplace else to bring soils and materials in.

Paul Baker: That’s basically right. Yeah. And, um, part of what we’re saying too is that that
would not be stable, but yes it would have to come, I mean, it’s obviously got to come from
somewhere.

Commissioner Van Hoff: So, I guess my question I want to get to then is how do we know? And
when to tell them they have to reclaim? Because they’ve got all that area that they’ve dug out.
I’m sure that none of that meets part of the, uh, slope stabilization. How do they determine when
they stop cutting and have to reclaim and put it to a slope that’s stable? How is that determined?
Who determines that?

Paul Baker: I guess I’m not quite understanding your question. I apologize.



                                                 42
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 43
Commissioner Van Hoff: The whole area that they have there, I’m not even talking about the
area that they’re asking to dig out now, but the whole area that they have on the back side of that
wall they’d need to bring material in to make it stable.

Paul Baker: Right.

Commissioner Van Hoff: Come out front, towards the freeway, all that area out there. They’ve
got to do the same thing to that. Right? To make it a slope that’s stable. To reclaim it.

April Abate: Are you talking about the other high wall area further

Commissioner Van Hoff: I’m not sure what other high wall there is. I’m talking if you move out
toward the freeway. If you’re standing at the freeway and you look back at that material.

April Abate: Okay. You’re talking about the. On the Salt Lake County side?

Commissioner Van Hoff: It would be on Draper side.

April Abate: Okay. Yeah, that’s their other. That’s their other permit actually. They actually have
two permits.

Commissioner Van Hoff: Yeah. Well, I’m sure there is cause they’re stretched across both
valleys.

April Abate: It’s because the County line straddles them. Yeah.

Commissioner Van Hoff: But either case. To make it stable to reclaim it they have to put it to a
slope that’s stable, correct? So, is that out front an area where it’s stable and they don’t have to
bring material in? Or do they have to bring material in to make it stable?

April Abate: I think that okay.

Paul Baker: That one I think, um, meets requirements right now. I mean, they’re, they don’t have
to take it to the 1.7 to 1. It just has to be the 1 to 1.

Commissioner Van Hoff: Okay. So, they could reclaim that.

Paul Baker: Uh, yeah.

Commissioner Van Hoff: And it would be no problem. So, we really don’t want

April Abate: If they’re done mining though.

Paul Baker: That is assuming they are done mining. Yes, that’s true.




                                                 43
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 44
Commissioner Van Hoff: So, we really don’t want them cutting any more stuff out of there
basically really.

Paul Baker: Yeah, I don’t know if they’re done. If they’re done mining that or not. But, yeah, if
they are done mining, yes, that could be reclaimed.

Commissioner Van Hoff: So, it does bring back the question. Where do they get the material
from to re-stabilize that on the south side of the highwall?

April Abate: I think. That high wall is basically going to be set back to 1 to1 and that will be
their reclamation on that one. Um, where as the Sage Canyon high wall is a different problem
really.

Chairman Adams: See, a compliant highwall, the way I am understanding this, is not reclaimable
as we can build homes on it. Reclaimable as we can throw a lake and a reservoir and turn it into a
Day Break in 100 years. Right? And that one to, that blue line that chops all the side of the
mountain out, that graphic that they threw up on Geneva’s slide show with just all the mass being
gone, that’s the end result of the blue line on this. And it’s always easier, right, to get down to
compact and un-touched soil that’s more solid then bringing in fill and building on sand. So, but
again that cuts into Draper. So, really as we’re looking at this. There is two ways this can go.
We. To get this stable and to have this be the 100 year or the 150-year plan or whatever it is, this
blue line plan, um, Draper can help out Geneva quite a bit. And I don’t see my quality of life as a
citizen here getting any better. I don’t see it getting better. It’s the, the air always, the dust is
always in the air and I just don’t see it getting better.

Chairman Adams: So, again, this is not a horse trade meeting, it’s just what’s been proposed to
us. And our job is to say on three counts what we want to do as far as passing recommendations
onto the City Council who then can be lobbied and, uh, you know, they can make their decision
on that. But right now, just looking at this we’ve got a solution to their problem and its a, yet I
don’t see any solutions to our problems as citizens. Uh, I don’t see anything being, I mean, there
is always regulation and then there is being a good neighbor. Like, my HOA makes me take my
garbage cans in, but I take them in so my neighbors across the street like me, not because I’m
going to get a $25 fine. So, now Christmas lights that’s a different thing, but garbage cans, I’m a,
I’ve got standards.

Chairman Adams: So, but back on a serious note I just don’t see anything that’s being done
above required regulations from Geneva that makes it better for me to live here or for my
neighbors. I just don’t. And so, we’ve got some cards here that are needed to get this nice blue
line. Um, again, so, that’s really what’s in front of us right now is just to tell the Planning, or the
City Council what would we recommend as neighbors with seeing the cards on the table, the
ones we hold, and then what’s being threatened to us.

Chairman Adams: By the way, as I’m looking this up here House Bill 288, good old
Representative Wild and Senator Hankins, you can thank those guys and you may want to light
their office up tomorrow, because that’s who is putting this pressure that this may go to the
parents and can’t stay with the siblings. We really do want to work this out, I think. Every time


                                                  44
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 45
we get together it gets better. Maybe not for you guys, but it seems that it’s getting better for the
people, that, who we are and who we represent. So, I would love to see that keep going, but
really that threat of that House Bill is ominous, it really puts us in a pickle. Um, I wouldn’t call it
duress but

Commissioner Tonks: May I just make one point?

Chairman Adams: Yeah.

Commissioner Tonks: I just feel that in, um, order to be complaint with that, to get that high
wall, some sort of set back has to be permitted, minimum, to get to the 1.7 to 1.

Chairman Adams: Into Draper?

Commissioner Tonks: Yes.

Chairman Adams: It’s the purple line.

Commissioner Tonks: It’s the purple line.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay, and I keep on bringing that up. So, if you can just. If everybody
says no forever how in the world do they stay compliant?

Commissioner Ogden: They just keep mining. They don’t ever tell you that they’re finished. So,
they can take off one inch every year for 100 years and still never say that their done.

Paul Baker: As long as their excavating.

Commissioner Ogden: You see what I mean? As long as their excavating it, its an active mine,
they don’t have to reclaim it. So, they could do that forever. What. The question that I have, and
I don’t know who. Was it you that put this together? This right here.

April Abate: Well, it’s one of our engineers that work with us.

Commissioner Ogden: So, if the blue line is like perfect world, it’s totally reclaimed, we can
build on it. Is that the steepest that it can be? Or would there be a reasonable line through here
that maybe we only give up this much and we don’t give up that much. You know, this is perfect
world, this is Rose Crest where its, you can see forever on a slight grade, but could they still
build on something that maybe is a little steeper. We know this is too steep, the purple one, but
could they go somewhere in between there?

April Abate: You could think of that as acres. So, basically that purple line set back is five acres.
To get to 1.7 to 1 we calculated it would be about a five-acre set back. If you want to get to 7 to
1, which is that blue line, that’s about 16 acres. So, what you were just drawing in the middle is
somewhere in between 5 and 16.



                                                  45
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 46
Commissioner Ogden: And would that be, could they put houses on that?

April Abate: It comes down to what you can vegetate. It’s still pretty steep to be able to vegetate
1.7 to 1. Two to one are better. Like I said, and that blue line is 7 to 1. So, somewhere in that
zone would be able, capable of holding vegetation.

Commissioner Ogden: Cause my biggest fear on this is. They’re only going to mine section four,
right? And then they are going to use section three to do their reclamation, but I don’t know how
you can mine four without digging into three, cause then you’re going to have a wall. You know
what I mean?

Chairman Adams: No, my understanding is that, that three and four go away and that gets the
blue line. Is that not the case?

Commissioner Ogden: That’s not the way I understand it.

Chairman Adams: What does three and four, which grade does that. Where do we end up on
that?

Paul Baker: Three isn’t part of this graphic.

Chairman Adams: Okay. This is only section four.

Paul Baker: Yeah.

Commissioner Hawker: Three is just a buffer.

Commissioner Ogden: I could just see them going all the way to three and building a big wall.
Then we’re in the same pickle.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay, so. Okay, can I ask another question here? So, I know you work
with the Division of Air Quality. What kind of, that’s obviously something that is of concern to
everybody, not just here in Draper, but along the whole Wasatch Front. Um, how many times do
you meet with them? What’s the regulation, you know? How do you share reports? You know,
what’s going on there?

April Abate: So, I’ll do an inspection of this mine, once a year. Annually is large mine inspection
requirements. So, I’ll do that. I’ll look at dust issues. I’ll look at reclamation issues. If there is
dust problems that I see then I can basically communicate that to Air Quality and that could or
could not in turn prompt them to come down and do an opacity inspection.

Chairman Adams: Have you ever reported anything to Air Quality?

April Abate: We’ve had discussions about various gravel mines. Not specifically Geneva but
gravel and sand in general are a hot topic between DAQ



                                                 46
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 47
Commissioner Ogden: The thing about this, is this mine is in one of the windiest sections in all
of the State.

Chairman Adams: Yeah. You have hang gliders and dust.

Commissioner Ogden: Yeah. So, the very fact that, you know, there’s no been, there hasn’t been
a report here. I know I have seen it blown out there to where you can’t even see the valley.

Commissioner Hawker: Well, and I guess, that’s really my question, and don’t, and for the
public, I don’t want this to be an un-educated statement, but because of the natural phenomenon
of the way our valleys are here in Utah County and Salt Lake County and with that wind pattern,
regardless if there is mining there or not, I’m pretty sure were still going to see some kinds of
dust on a daily basis, uh, regardless if there is mining going on there or not. Now, obviously, I’m
not saying that it doesn’t exacerbate the problem with this mining, but, uh, I think there’s this
maybe Pollyanna attitude of hey if the mine went away there would be no dust and no pollution,
and I don’t think that would be the case just because of the way our valleys are, it’s the same
thing with pollution. We can do everything we can to try and mitigate that, but we just live in a
unique, uh, landscape and so, I think that’s something. I just try and keep that in mind as well.
And I could be wrong, but I think it’s just that wind, it’s a unique situation.

Chairman Adams: Well, anything else for the DOGM folks? Okay, alright, we’ll let you guys get
a break there. Thanks for standing there for a minute. So, alright, Commissioners what else needs
to be discussed? You’ve heard it all. You’ve heard the. Yeah, we’ll bring the applicant up.
Anything else you want to deliberate before that? Okay. Alright. Bruce you are welcome to come
back up and chat with us.

Bruce Baird: I actually don’t have much additional information to provide. I think that the
Commission has heard everything and, uh, we appreciate the public’s comments. There’s some
things I could spend time disagreeing with, uh, but I don’t think that’s going to get us anywhere
and it’s 10:30 at night and we’ve made a proposal that we think is a reasonable proposal and we
would ask for you to make your recommendation to the Council and if the Council wants to, uh,
have some further discussion we’ll have some further discussion. We would hope, we do
appreciate that you’ve recognized that we’ve made some improvements. There were some
statements about Geneva not being a reputable company and using this as an excuse to go and
mine area three, there is no intent here to deal with area three. I just want to be 100% clear about
that. To do anything with area three specifically would require a rezone and development plan.
The Development Agreement is clear about that your zoning code is clear about that. It’s 100%
in the City’s digression as to how to deal with area three in the future. This plan deals with really
only mining of area four to make the improvements that we talked about. And other than that,
we’ll just end it at 10:30.

Commissioner Hawker: Hey Bruce. Can I just, um, so and I get exactly what you’re saying, I
totally understand. I think there’s maybe, maybe there’s a feeling that because of this high wall,
that quite frankly probably shouldn’t have been there now, um, and now we’re stuck with it that
if this goes along all of the sudden we’re going to get some other problem in area three where



                                                 47
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 48
you’re not doing it but all the sudden we find a new problem and it’s like hey we can’t do this
with out that. So, can you just maybe talk

 Bruce Baird: Sure. If you take a look at how this works. At the point where area three hits area
four it matches the topography. So, there wouldn’t be a wall. The wall is self-resolving there, uh,
there may be some little minor terracing for houses but as you can see the grades match at that
spot at the boundary. So, there’s not an intent to create and there wasn’t an intent to create the
high wall in that situation as you heard there was a confusion about the permits versus, the
DOGM permits versus the Lehi requirement, it wasn’t intentional to go in and create this
problem so it would have to be solved. It’s a problem that needs to be solved as DOGM’s
recognized but when you see those grades match at the three/four boundary, um, if you
continued that wall it would go a little bit over, but that’s again, the intent is to have a little
natural, almost a natural shaped ridge at that point and that’s what we’ve talked about all along.

Commissioner Hawker: Okay. And then, I just maybe for the public’s sake for those who haven’t
heard, Bruce. Can you just share how many other companies share this mine? Uh, cause I think
sometimes to your detriment you get blamed for other people’s, uh, things and then the second
thing that I’d like is I think there’s been some maybe misunderstanding maybe not about when
this new ,uh, piece of property was bought, um, you know, cause there’s been some people
saying that. So, I would just like to give you that opportunity to say this.

Bruce Baird: Yeah. And I don’t have the entire timeline of the purchase of this. We presented the
timeline of the purchase, and I don’t have it memorized, I’m sorry Mr. Hawker. Uh, I would be
very surprised if the statement that Geneva purchased it after those subdivisions were built was
correct. Um, my memory is from the non-conforming use hearing that we had regarding the 40
acres that the Geneva parcel was assembled. Uh, essentially at the time there was no zoning, or
the zoning was allowed there. So, I don’t believe that’s the case. I’d have to check it out. I don’t
want to make miss statement.

Bruce Baird: In terms of the other operations, Geneva is not the only gravel operation, there is a
Staker operation as well. Is there anybody else there? Six operators in the point of the mountain
area. Geneva happens to be the biggest and Geneva happens to be the one in, primarily in
Draper. But there are six operators below the County line. And, uh, Geneva is of course as
DOGM, as I think those representatives, the highest, one of the highest quality operators in the
State. Uh, so that’s the proposal and we appreciate your time and we appreciate the, uh, civility
of the public and your questions and we’ll just move forward from here. Thank you very much
unless you have any more questions.

Commissioner Squire: Could I ask you a question about the acreage?

Bruce Baird: Of course. Yes Ms. Squire.

Commissioner Squire: If my memory serves me correctly the last application when it came
before the City Council, in the meeting that did not happen, the proposal was 18 acres to be
mined in order to fix the high wall and now we’ve made that, in this application it’s 27, and I am



                                                48
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 49
curious why the discrepancy there and I would like to see a smaller area if we are going to allow
mining.

Bruce Baird: And I don’t, excuse me again, I wasn’t anticipating that question and I don’t know
the answer as to why it’s changed from there. If you give me a second, I might be able to find out
the answer from my engineer.

Commissioner Squire: Sure.

Russell Fox: Commission if I may while he is talking about that, just to clarify something on area
three, if they came in with a future development for residential or commercial, whatever that
would be, that would require a land disturbance permit that would require our development
review. It would fall under the restrictions of the Hillside Protection Zone. So, there would be
some certain things where the same mass grading that is occurring right now in Lehi, our codes
are a little more restrictive on that. Uh, if they did any type of processing that was for mining or
for sale, they wouldn’t be able to do that. If they wanted to rebalance the site we do allow that
under our land disturbance, but I just wanted to make sure that’s clear that if, in order for
anything to happen on area three it does need to go through rezone and that would be even to like
a residential zone, but there would be certain things that we’d still have for protections for those
areas.

Bruce Baird: Ms. Squire, I believe the answer is primarily that we’ve done some further analysis
of what it would take to properly match the contours of the high wall with the area three
boundary and that, so that it actually was a useable and manageable slope and I think that’s the
reason that the acreage expanded.

Commissioner Squire: Okay, thanks.

Bruce Baird: Anything else? Thank you very much.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. Alright, Commissioners. We’ve got three items in front of us here
on these motions. We’ve got a land use map amendment, we’ve got the zoning map amendment,
and then the text amendment. We won’t be touching the, uh, Development Agreement. So, we
need to make a positive or negative recommendation.

Commissioner Hawker: I would just say, um, Commissioner Adams, or Chairperson Adams and
myself, I think, have been the longest here. Just for the public’s sake it’s commendable, I mean, I
think four years ago, uh, it was pretty ridiculous how, uh, raucous and uncivilized this is, so for
all of those who came, thank you very much, I think you all know that we are the, uh, unvoted
people, we are appointed people, uh, the City Council are the voted members here, so we do this
for the love of our City, so, with that Mr. Chair I’ll make a motion.

Chairman Adams: Go ahead.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker: I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Land Use Map Amendment as requested by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva


                                                49
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 50
Rock Products and Perry and Associates Inc, to amend the subject property land use designation
to Open Space and Parks and Industrial Manufacturing. Application TEXTMAP-944-2020 based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. And can we get a second for that motion?

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff: I’ll second that.

Chairman Adams: Thanks John. Okay, lets put this one to a vote then we’ll hit the other two. So,
this is to forward a negative recommendation to the City Council, uh, for the Land Use Map
Amendment. Let’s start with you.

Vote:

Chairman Adams: Craig?

Commissioner Hawker: Yes.

Chairman Adams: John?

Commissioner Van Hoff: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Mary?

Commissioner Squire: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Gary?

Commissioner Ogden: Yes.

Chairman Adams: DeLaina?

Commissioner Tonks: Yes.

Chairman Adams: So, that will forward a negative recommendation to the City Council. Again,
for the general public, that will still, this moves forward regardless, right. This is just for, we are
the advisory board to the City Council, so you understand.

Commissioner Squire: And can I make a comment about that. I should have done it before the
vote, but I just want to say on the record, that I do support the City Council trying to work
something out. Um, I don’t want to throw them under the bus by sending a unanimous negative
recommendation. I just don’t think this plan is the right plan and, um, I do worry a lot about what
will happen if this is denied, but I trust them to negotiate this further and try and make it better
for Draper.




                                                  50
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 51
Chairman Adams: Thanks, Mary. Council where would the run with the land on area two be
mentioned. Don’t tell me it was, uh, in the one we just voted on. So, that would be a perpetual,
uh, a perpetual, um

Commissioner Squire: We can’t add that.

Commissioner Hawker: Yeah, but that’s the Development Agreement, so

Chairman Adams: So, that’s been mentioned. I want to mention it right now for the record, so as
City Council listens in that, that cannot be, we can’t motion that in anywhere, but having those
property rights run with the land meaning in perpetude, never ending, uh, would be something
we’d love to have them discuss with the applicant. Alright, let’s go thorough, now were looking
at the Zoning Map Amendment. Do we have a motion for that?

Commissioner Ogden: I’ll make a motion.

Chairman Adams: Go ahead Gary.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden: Um, I move that we, um, move forward with a negative
recommendation to the City Council for a zoning map amendment as requested by Dave Kallas,
representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry and Associates Inc, to amend the subject
properties, excuse me, zoning designation to OS and M2, um, Application TEXTMAP-945-2020
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. And can we get a second for that motion?

Second: Commissioner Hawker: I’ll second that.

Chairman Adams: Thanks Craig. Okay, so this is for a vote on the Zoning Map Amendment, uh,
passing that forward with a negative recommendation to the City Council. Let’s start with you.

Vote:

Chairman Adams: Gary?

Commissioner Ogden: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Craig?

Commissioner Hawker: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Mary?

Commissioner Squire: Yes.

Chairman Adams: John?


                                                51
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 52

Commissioner Van Hoff: Yes.

Chairman Adams: DeLaina?

Commissioner Tonks: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Okay. And the last one on our desk here is the Text Amendment. Do we have
a motion for that?

Commissioner Squire: Well, and before the motion, we haven’t really talked about this at all
tonight, but this seems to be the same issue that came up, um, I don’t know, well maybe last year
where we were looking at removing the conditional use permit for mining in this particular zone.
Is that. Am I understanding that correctly? It’s the same that we saw last year or 2018 maybe. Is
that correct?

Jennifer Jastremsky: So, it’s the. Are you referring to the text amendment that came before you
but did not go to the City Council?

Commissioner Squire: Correct.

Jennifer Jastremsky: Yeah. So, that would have changed that zone so that it was not permitted.
Um, for that mineral extraction. So, the proposal is to change it from conditional to permitted.

Commissioner Squire: Got it. Right. So, I don’t know if anyone wants to discuss that. I have a
feeling we don’t need to. Okay. I’ll make a motion.

Chairman Adams: Go ahead Mary.

Motion: Commissioner Squire: I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for a text amendment as requested by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products
and Perry and Associates Inc, to amend the M2 zones allowed uses by making basic industry and
mineral extraction permitted uses. Application TEXTMAP-946-2020 based on the findings listed
in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020.

Chairman Adams: Thank you. And a second for that motion.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff: I’ll second it.

Chairman Adams: Okay. Thanks John. So, this is for the Text Amendment moving forward with
a negative recommendation to the City Council. Correct? So, well go ahead and put that forward
to a vote.

Vote:

Chairman Adams: Mary?


                                                52
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 27, 2020
Page 53

Commissioner Squire: Yes.

Chairman Adams: John?

Commissioner Van Hoff: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Craig?

Commissioner Hawker: Yes.

Chairman Adams: Gary?

Commissioner Ogden: Yes.

Chairman Adams: and DeLaina?

Commissioner Tonks: Yes.

Chairman Adams: DeLaina I don’t mean to always put you at the end there. It’s just kind of how
it shakes out. So, your vote counts just as much as everybody else’s. Thank you. So, alright,
that’s how that will move forward.

Chairman Adams: We appreciate the applicant for coming out tonight. Um, we’re neighbors and
you have heard the cries for clean air. You’re not the only culprit, there’s plenty of things were
combating here in this valley and so we’d love to be, uh, we’d love to be good neighbors and, uh,
if there’s anything we can do to help with that clean air let us know. And you can sense that
that’s what I had the most hash marks on my list of items, um, on here that were concerns. And
we want to thank the general public. Uh, keep an eye out for the meetings on, the City Council
gets together on Tuesdays, so keep an eye out on the calendar for that. So, we appreciate your
input.

Chairman Adams: All right. So, that will conclude our public hearing number five on our
agenda. Uh, before we adjourn is there anything we need to discuss or take care of as a
commission? Great. Thank you, guys.

Commissioner Ogden: Can we do some training? Uh, Ok.

6.     Adjournment: Chairperson Adams moved to adjourn the meeting. A voice vote was
       taken with all in favor and the meeting adjourned at 10:38 p.m.




                                               53
