                  MUNICIPAL BUILDING AUTHORITY AGENDA
Notice is hereby given that the Draper Municipal Building Authority will hold a Business Meeting
on Tuesday, June 2, 2020, at 7:00 PM, in the 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in
the Council Chambers.

The Agenda will be as follows:
1.         Call to Order
           a.    This meeting will be held electronically.
                 This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Resolution
                 #14-54. As restrictions are in place across the State limiting public gatherings, we
                 want to be sure everyone interested in participating in Municipal Building
                 Authority meetings can do so in a manner that they feel most comfortable.
                       Listen through the Draper City website:
                       https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
                       Email your comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 p.m. on the
                       day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
                       If you wish to speak during the Public Hearing portion of the meeting,
                       please send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to
                       public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, June 2, 2020.

2.         Public Hearing: Municipal Building Authority Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Tentative
           Budget
           This is an opportunity for the public to comment on the Fiscal Year 2020-2021
           Tentative Budget for the Municipal Building Authority prior to its adoption. Staff
           report by Bob Wylie.
3.         Adjourn to a Redevelopment Agency of Draper City Meeting.
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper
City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us, the Utah Public Notice
website at www.utah.gov/pmn, and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: May 29, 2020
                                                  Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
                                                  Draper City, State of Utah
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or
services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or
laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
