                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, Utah 84020


                                           STAFF REPORT
                                              March 2, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: April 2, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Pete Kane, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6335 or pete.kane@draper.ut.us

Re:       Burt Brothers Tire Remodel—Site Plan & Plat Amendment Request
          Application No.:   SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
          Applicant:         Sam Gowans, representing Legendary Construction
          Project Location:  263 E & 267 E 12300 S
          Current Zoning:    CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:           Approximately 1.2 Acres (approximately 52,200 square feet)
          Request:           Request for approval of a site plan and plat amendment in the CR (Regional
                             Commercial) Zone for the proposed remodel and addition to an existing
                             automobile service center, construction of additional parking lot, and
                             merging of the two lots.


BACKGROUND & SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan and plat amendment for approximately 1.2 acres
located on the north side of 12300 S, at 263 E & 267 E. The property is currently zoned CR (Regional
Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a site plan and plat amendment be approved to allow for
the remodel and addition of a previous automotive service center, construction of an additional parking lot
to bring the property into compliance with the parking requirement, and merging of the two lots.

The main portion of the property (263 E 12300 S) is already developed and includes a cross-access
easement on the front of the property to the abutting lot to the east (Sonic Drive-In). The back portion of
the property (267 E 12300 S) is an undeveloped lot marked by dirt and scrub vegetation on the perimeter.
This back lot has a cross access easement with the front developed lot (263 E 12300 S) as well as a cross
access easement to the abutting property (Sonic Drive-In).




Burt Brothers Tire Remodel                                                  App. # SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
Plat Amendment & Site Plan Request                    1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community Commercial
land use designation for the subject property. This category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the Regional Commercial (CR) Zone classification. The purpose of the
CR Zone is to “provide areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial,
entertainment, and related uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and
nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master planned commercial centers
with outlying commercial pads, big box stores, offices, and various types of high density residential
uses.”

The CR Zone designation is a compatible zoning district for the Regional Commercial land use
designation. The CR Zone is not a compatible zoning district for the Community Commercial land use
designation; the compatible zoning districts include: Community Commercial (CC), General Commercial
(CG), Interchange Commercial (CI), and Institutional Care (IC). CR zoning abuts the subject property on
the north and east, CSD-DP (Commercial Special District – Draper Peaks) abuts on the west, and CC
(Community Commercial) abuts on the south.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant is seeking to remodel the existing building by updating signage, updating
the automobile bay entries, removing the existing front building customer area, and constructing a new
front customer area with an additional 300 sf; as well as build an additional parking lot.

Circulation. Circulation on the property will remain the same. The primary vehicle access to the property
is from 12300 S which will not be touched. There is an existing cross access easement with the property


Burt Brothers Tire Remodel                                                 App. # SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
Plat Amendment & Site Plan Request                   2
to the east (Sonic Drive-In) at the street front of the property which will not be touched. Cross access
easements that exist from the primary subject property (263 S 12300 E) to the rear lot as well as from the
rear lot to the Sonic Drive-In will be improved as part of the development. The rear lot is currently
undeveloped and primarily dirt with little vegetation. The project will create a new parking lot on this
property and create clear and accessible access along the cross access easements.

Pedestrian circulation will be improved on the site. Painted pedestrian walkways will be incorporated
from the new back parking lot, up to and along the existing building’s western face.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping improvements on the back parcel (when combined with
the primary front parcel) will create a total of 20.8% of landscaped area where a minimum of 20% is
required (Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) 9-22-050(D)1). The landscaping for the back parcel is
of a similar style and plantings as the existing front property, ensuring integration between the sites. A
minimum ten foot (10’) perimeter planting has been incorporated into the layout for the back parcel.
Eleven trees will be planted in the back parcel, along with various shrubs and grasses.

The maximum lot coverage permitted for the CR Zone is 60% (DCMC Table 9-11-2). The proposed plans
for the combined lots will result in a building lot coverage of 14.97%.

Parking. The existing property includes a total of 21 parking spaces (20 standard, 1 ADA-accessible). The
new additional parking lot will add 28 spaces. One space in the existing lot will be converted to ADA-
accessible. This will bring the total parking spaces for the combined property to 49 spaces (47 standard
and 2 ADA-accessible). Per DCMC 9-25-100, an auto repair business is required to have 4 spaces per
service bay. The business has a total of 13 bays (five double-door bays and three single-door bays) which
results in 52 required parking spaces. The natural adjustment range (DCMC 9-25-090(A)) allows for a
10% modification to reduce or increase that parking requirement – which results in a permissible parking
space requirement range of 47 to 57. The project will bring the business into compliance with regards to
the parking requirement.

Architecture. The majority of the building will remain the same. The front customer area (marked by an
angled entrance with a large red metal roof) will be removed and a new front customer area will be
constructed in its place, squaring off the building. This will result in 300 sf of additional interior space.

A new dark bronze metal awning will be added above the new customer entrance as well as along the
front of the building. The addition will be clad with a CMU wall to match the existing building. A new
parapet wall on the addition will include flashing to match the existing building and will stand taller to the
existing building to break up the roofline.

Lighting. The project does not include any additional lighting on the front property. It calls for two
exterior light poles at the northern edge of the new parking lot to match the existing light poles, fixtures,
and colors on the front property. The photometric plan demonstrates that there will be no light intrusion to
abutting properties.

Outdoor Display Areas. The project calls for a small display areas by the new building entrance. DCMC
9-27-230(B)(1) allows for outdoor display areas that are in conjunction with and subordinate to a legally
established business in commercial zones. The outdoor display areas: 1) must be depicted on new site
plans, and 2) display areas may not be counted in the landscaping required under Section 9-23. The
proposed site plan complies with both of these standards.




Burt Brothers Tire Remodel                                                     App. # SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
Plat Amendment & Site Plan Request                     3
Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan Review request is
found in Section 9-5-090(E) and of a Plat Amendment request in Section 17-9-040 of the DCMC. These
sections depict the standard of review for such requests as:


SITE PLAN 9-5-090(E)
E.     Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
       1.     The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
              approved.
       2.     A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
              limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
              materials.
       3.     The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
              plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
       4.     The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
              development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
       5.     The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
              7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
              concerns.

SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENT 17-9-040
The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended plat
showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is good cause for the
vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the site plan
and plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the site plan and plat amendment submission. Comments from
the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the site plan
and plat amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the site plan and plat
amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning Commission
review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:



Burt Brothers Tire Remodel                                                  App. # SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
Plat Amendment & Site Plan Request                   4
1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
          Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
          on the site, including permitting.
2.        That the site plan approval does not include a conditional use permit to store any goods or
          commodities outside of the building. A separate application for a conditional use permit must be
          filed and approved before performing any outdoor storage.
3.        One outdoor display area is approved for the area marked in the site plan as provided and must
          ensure consistent clearance so as not to impede pedestrian and wheelchair access to the building.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General
          Plan.
2.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City
          Municipal Code.
3.        The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development of the
          area.
4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
5.        The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
6.        The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to,
          building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
7.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11,
          12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
          utilities concerns.
8.        There is good cause for vacation or amendment to the plat; and no public street, right-of-way, or
          easement has been vacated or amended.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the Plat Amendment and Site Plan, as requested by Sam Gowans, representing
Legendary Construction for the Burt Brothers Tire Remodel, applications SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-
2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 2, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the Plat Amendment and Site Plan, as requested by Sam Gowans, representing
Legendary Construction for the Burt Brothers Tire Remodel, applications SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-
2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 2, 2020,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…




Burt Brothers Tire Remodel                                                     App. # SPR-898-2019 & SUBD-899-2019
Plat Amendment & Site Plan Request                     5
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. Outdoor Storage. The application does not include a conditional use permit request to store any
       goods or commodities outside of the building. If the business would like to create and store this
       material outside the main building, they will need to apply for a conditional use permit and meet
       the requirements as outlined in DCMC Section 9-27-230(A).

    2. Outdoor Display Areas. The application does include notation for an outdoor display area at the
       new building entrance. As required under DCMC Section 9-27-230(B), the business must ensure
       that the displays do not “block sidewalks, walkways, building entrances or drive aisles and clear
       view areas.” The outdoor display area should be limited to only the one identified in the
       submitted site plan.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement (SWMP) are now required for every private
       storm drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. Submission of the maintenance plan is now
       required prior to site approval. The maintenance agreement is a condition of approval; it is
       required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit
       for construction of the site. The following items must be completed to the submitted draft SWMP:
           a. Front page of agreement needs to be completed,
           b. Agreement needs to be signed and notarized,
           c. Legal description needs to be a metes and bounds legal description, and
           d. A hard copy of the original signed and notarized agreement and plan need to be
               submitted to Draper City after all correction items have been addressed.

    2. Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division.

    3. Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
       Engineering Division.

Building Division Review.
No comments.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.
No comments.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-four (24)
        feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.
2. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop drawings are
   to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans, with
   manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III
   or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.)
   FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. All fire protection plans require 3rd party review
   prior to be submitted to the Draper Fire Department.

3. Post Indicator Valve with Tamper may be Required. If there is no designated fire riser room
   with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted P.I.V (OS&Y) or
   a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building with a tamper switch.

4. Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via email
   to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans, with
   manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level III or
   better in Fire Alarm Systems. All fire protection plans require 3rd party review prior to be
   submitted to the Draper Fire Department.

5. Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to exterior walls,
   near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access to the fire sprinkler
   riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the
   General Contractor. See attached information form.

6. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type meaning
   metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous location where they
   will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in
   cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
   five (5) feet above the floor.

7. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
   plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
   their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
   EXHIBIT H
SUBDIVISION PLAT
