Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: February 27, 2020
Re: Geneva Rock Products II– Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text Amendment, and Development Agreement Comments: The applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment, a Zoning Map Amendment, a Text Amendment, and a Development Agreement for approximately 91.26 acres (Subject Property) located at approximately 15547 South Minuteman Dr. The applicant’s specific requests are outlined in Exhibit K of the report. The requests are as follows:
Request for a Land Use Map Amendment for 64.27 acres (Areas 1 and 2 Combined) from Residential Low/Medium Density to Open Space and Parks and for 26.99 acres (Area 4) from Residential Low/Medium Density to Industrial and Manufacturing.
Request for a Zoning Map Amendment for 64.27 acres from A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimum) to OS (Open Space) (Areas 1 and 2 Combined) and for 26.99 acres (Area 4) from A5 to M2 (Major Manufacturing).
Request for a Text Amendment to allow Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction as permitted uses in the M2 zone.
Area 3 is not the subject of the applications being heard by the Planning Commission. Area 3 is subject to a Development Agreement application that Geneva has simultaneously submitted with the applications being heard by the Planning Commission.
The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1.  That the proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The proposed amendments comply with the findings in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC.
3.  The proposed amendments are supported by the purpose statement in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
4.  The provision of public open space offered in the Development Agreement offsets the concern of allowing for the expansion of existing mining operations.
For a negative recommendation:
1.  The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The M2 zoning designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate for an area that is becoming more dominated by residential uses.
3.  The proposed amendments are not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the Subject Property due to the additional types of uses that would be allowed .
4.  The proposed amendments are not supported by the purpose statement found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 2/24/2020 Cover Memo