                                          Development Review Committee
                                              1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                Draper, UT 84020
                                                September 18, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: October 8, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Music Day Academy–Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
          Application No.:  USE-1056-2020
          Applicant:        Sherstine Stephens
          Project Location: 621 E Cougar Ridge Road
          Current Zoning:   RSD-5-Bellevue Zone (Residential Special District Bellevue, 9,700 ft² min
                            lot size)
          Acreage:          0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,018 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
                            private piano lessons in a single-family home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (HOCUP) for
approximately 0.23 acres located at approximately 621 E Cougar Ridge Road (Exhibit B). The property is
currently zoned RSD-5-Bellevue (Residential Special District Bellevue, 9,700 ft² min lot size) and the
home was constructed in 2007. The applicant is requesting that a HOCUP be approved to allow for
private piano lessons in a single-family home.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Music Day Academy                                                                        App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                 1
The property has been assigned the RSD-5-Bellevue zoning designation (Exhibit D). Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-17E-040(A) states this zoning designation will have a density of
approximately 2.52 dwelling unit per acre.

According to DCMC Section 9-17E-010 the purpose of the RSD-5-Bellevue is described as “The
Bellevue project is a master planned architecturally controlled residential development by the
"developer". The residential special district (RSD) zoning requirements allow for and permit flexibility in
terms of planning, site design, lot size and development through the ability to customize the zoning and
development standards to achieve unique development opportunity. The Bellevue project seeks to utilize
this RSD zone, which provides the flexibility required to make possible significant project, community and
system improvements and amenities. The Bellevue RSD is located between 13200 South and Corner
Canyon Creek, 300 East and the East Jordan Canal.” The property is completely surrounded by the
RSD-5-Bellevue zoning designation.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant’s clients will park their vehicles in the driveway when loading and
unloading. The piano and music instruction will be in a room to the right of the entry way by the front
door. This small room will be the only place that will have students in the home (Exhibit E). Hours of
operation will be 9am to 5pm, Monday through Friday, but the applicant anticipates only two, one hour
sessions per day. The applicant may have multiple students that are siblings dropped off at the same time
to minimize traffic impacts to the neighborhood.

Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). DCMC Chapter 9-34 governs home occupations and states that




Music Day Academy                                                                        App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request             2
home occupations are subject to certain standards found in DCMC Section 9-34-040. DCMC Section 9-
34-060 of the DCMC states that “a home occupation listed in section 9-34-030 or 9-34-050 of this
chapter that does not conform to any of the development standards in section 9-34-040 of this chapter
may nonetheless be established through the issuance of a conditional use permit specifically for the
desired alteration to those development standards.” The applicant would like to establish a Personal
Instruction Service use within the home. This use requires a HOCUP per DCMC Section 9-34-050.

Home Occupation. DCMC Section 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home
occupations. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

          A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
              dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of
              the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

               The applicant owns and resides within the home. There will be no employees.

          B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
              continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

               After approval of this HOCUP the applicant will apply for their business license.

          C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed
              in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

               The applicant will have no employees in the home with this business.

          D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
              city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
              may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

               The applicant will comply with any inspections that are required for city, state, or county
               officials.

          E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
              square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

               Being a piano teaching business there will be no inventory storage for this home business.
               Additionally the applicant will utilize 130 ft² for the entire home business area being under
               the 250 ft² maximum.

          F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
              dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall
              be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
              occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
              occupation.

               There will be no modifications to the home or the yard for this business. The house will
               remain visually as a home with no evidence of a business from the outside. The applicant will
               have up to two customer vehicles at one time in their driveway for picking up and dropping
               off students.




Music Day Academy                                                                             App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                 3
          G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
             offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
             interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

               Instruments will be played inside the home so the noise impact will be very minimal on
               adjacent properties.

          H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
             primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt
             the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not
             more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home
             occupation.

               The home business will have very minimal impact on the dwelling and will always be a
               secondary use. The character of the residence will remain as the appearance of a single-
               family home. The home is 4,117 ft² and the business area is 130 ft² utilizing only 3.15% of
               the home’s square footage.

        I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

               The applicant will comply with Title 9 Chapter 26 of the DCMC. The applicant has not
               requested signage with this application. A separate sign permit application and review will
               be required for future signs, if any.

        J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
           vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
           located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for drop
           off traffic.

               The business will be in operation two hours a day on average serving two appointments per
               day. All traffic will be in the driveway of the home as students are dropped off and picked up.

          K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles
             or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally
             be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

               The applicant does not have any vehicles associated with the home business.

          L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
             activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

               The applicant will not use their yard for any business activities.

          M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
             facility shall not be considered customers.

               The applicant is applying for permission to have customers through the HOCUP process.

          N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess
              of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.




Music Day Academy                                                                            App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                 4
               The utility use for this business will be minimal and will not be significantly different from
               normal residential usage.

          O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
             primary structure on the property.

               All piano teaching will be in the primary structure on the property.

          P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
              conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
              subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
              Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
              respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if
              the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.

               The applicant has a single family home. The applicant will not have any employees other
               than themselves.

          Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
              and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
              provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
              26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth
              in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage
              food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
              agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with
              these regulations.

               The home business is piano lessons and will not involve child care or food production.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Conditional Use request is
found in Sections 9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                   the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;



Music Day Academy                                                                             App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                 5
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                  drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                  protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                  noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                  the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed to
              determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the HOCUP
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the HOCUP submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the HOCUP
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the HOCUP submission.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
                    License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation on
                    the property.
          2.        The business shall meet all requirements of DCMC Section 9-34-040, except as provided
                    by this permit.
          3.        The applicant shall obtain all necessary inspections prior to starting business operations,
                    including, but not limited to a building inspection, fire inspection, and Health Department
                    inspection.
          4.        The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from any



Music Day Academy                                                                            App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                 6
                    and all necessary State and County agencies prior to receiving a business license.
          5.        Customer parking shall be located on-site. On-street parking shall not be utilized for the
                    business.
          6.        If there are recitals in the home, no parking shall be allowed in association with the
                    recital. Alternative off-site parking shall be required.
          7.        Hours of operation shall be limited to 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., Monday through Friday
                    having up to two clients per day each for a one hour session.

The findings for approval are as follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Sherstine Stephens, for the Music Day Academy, application USE-1056-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Sherstine Stephens, for the Music Day Academy, application USE-1056-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18, 2020,
and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Sherstine Stephens, for the Music Day Academy, application USE-1056-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18, 2020.




Music Day Academy                                                                             App. # USE-1056-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Request                  7
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed use on the property will have a low intensity of customers and hours of
               operation that will have a low impact on neighboring properties.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
               utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The number of
               trips generated by potential employee(s), the owner, and customers, up to two customers
               at a time for lessons, will not have a detrimental impact to the area due to the nature of
               the residence and the availability of onsite parking at the subject site. The subject
               residence has a three-car driveway. We recommend the employees and customers be
               required to park in the garage and driveway as part of the USE requirements. On-street
               parking could cause access problems along Cougar Ridge Rd. during the winter or in
               poor weather. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate
               a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;

       2.      Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking be
               onsite. Onsite parking is especially important during winter months when there may be
               excessive snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a safety issue; and

       3.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
               of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
               improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1.      No comments at this time.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
               numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
               shall contrast with their background.
       2.      2S-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
               meaning metal head and neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
               location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
               every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
               mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
Fire Notes:
        Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility
        of any person designing, owning, operating, or controlling any building. Damages to
        persons property caucused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency
        conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the Draper City Fire
        Department as assuming liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                         EXHIBIT F
                                  APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE

Home Occupation Questions:
1.    What is the present use of the property (Manufacturing, Agricultural, Residential, Commercial)?
              Residential
2.    What is the proposed use? Be specific as to use, hours of operation, number of employees, etc.
              I will be teaching private piano lessons Monday-Friday. I will teach for about 2 hours a
              day, and my hours of operation range from 9-5. I will have no other employees.
3.     Please discuss how the proposed use will “fit-in” with surrounding uses.
               No alterations will be made to the home, so it will fit it perfectly with the rest of the
               neighborhood.
4.     What type of service will it provide to the City of Draper?
               Music education has long been associated with higher-level thinking and brain
               development. I am happy to offer quality MTNA (Music Teacher National Association)
               instruction to the students in my community.
5.     Is the proposed use consistent with the current zoning & land use designation? Please explain.
                Yes, the property will function primarily as a residence and will have little to no impact
                on the neighborhood. The HOA has already expressed their approval and is happy to
                provide a letter to the city if necessary.
6.     Is the proposed use similar or compatible to other uses in the same area? Please explain.
                Yes, the home will continue to function as a residence and will see no alterations.
7.     Is the proposed use suitable for the proposed site? Please explain.
                Yes, the lessons will provide a service to the community while the home functions as a
                residence.
8.     Will the proposed use emit noise, glare, dust, pollutants, & odor? Please explain.
                No, the lessons will be in my home and will not create exterior noise. No glare, dust, or
                pollutants will be produced.
9.     What will be the hours of operation & how many people will be employed? Please specify if any
       employees will not be residents of the home.
                The hours will be 9-5, but I will only teach for an average of 2 hours daily. I will have no
                additional employees.
10.    If applicable, how many clients will come to the home daily?
                Siblings groups are dropped off together to minimize traffic to and from the
                neighborhood, and parents will park in the driveway so that the street remains
                unobstructed. An average of two families will come daily.
