FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT OF THE
             UTAH RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY




                          I
                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                             Page

Recitals                                                            1
Article 1-    Definitions                                           2
Article 2-    Purposes                                              2
Article 3-    Non-Waiver of Immunity                                3
Article 4-    Parties to Agreement                                  3
Article 5-    Term of Agreement                                     3
Article 6-    Creation of Agency                                    4
Article 7-    Powers of Agency                                      4
Article 8-    Voting Rights of Members                              4
Article 9-    Liabilities and Obligations of the Agency             4
Article 10-   Board of Directors                                    4
Article 11-   Powers and Duties of the Board of Directors           5
Article 12-   Meetings of the Board of Directors                    6
Article 13-   Meetings of the Members                               6
Article 14-   Officers, Agents and Personnel of the Agency          6
Article 15-   Joint Protection Coverage                             7
Article 16-   Development of the Joint Protection Program           8
Article 17-   Accounts and Records                                  8
Article 18-   Responsibility for Monies                             8
Article 19-   Responsibilities of the Agency                        9
Article 20-   Responsibilities of Members                           9
Article 21-   Effective Date of the Interlocal Agreement            10
Article 22-   Commencement of Operations                            10
Article 23-   Membership                                            10
Article 24-   Withdrawal                                            11
Article 25-   Cancellation                                          11
Article 26-   Effect of Withdrawal                                  11
Article 27-   Termination and Distribution                          11
Article 28-   Provision for By-Laws and Manual                      12
Article 29-   Notices                                               12
Article 30-   Amendment                                             12
Article 31-   Prohibition Against Assignment                        12
Article 32-   Severability Clause                                   13
Article 33-   Agreement Complete                                    13
Article 34-   Liability and Indemnification                         13



                                             II
      FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT OF THE
                   UTAH RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY

       THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into in the State of Utah among the Members of
the Utah Risk Management Agency, a political subdivision of the State of Utah. Each party agrees
to abide by the terms of this agreement. The parties to this agreement are collectively referred to
as “Members” or “parties” and individually as “Member” or “party.”

                                            RECITALS

        WHEREAS, the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq., permits
two or more public agencies to enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
action, to provide services they are each authorized by statute to provide, to make the most efficient
use of their powers by enabling them to cooperate with other public agencies on a basis of mutual
advantage, and to do anything they are each authorized by statute to do;

       WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §11-13-203 provides that two or more Utah public agencies
may enter into an agreement to approve the creation of a Utah interlocal entity to accomplish the
purpose of their joint or cooperative action;

       WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §63G-7-801(1) provides that a governmental entity may
purchase commercial insurance, self-insure, or self-insure and purchase excess commercial
insurance;

        WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §63G-7-801(2) provides that any government entity may
self-insure by establishing a trust account to expend principal and earnings of the trust account
solely to pay the cost of investigation, discovery, and other pretrial and litigation expenses
including attorneys’ fees, and pay all sums for which the governmental entity may be adjudged
liable or for which a compromise settlement may be agreed upon;

       WHEREAS, on or about September 30, 1985, the governing bodies of certain public
agencies formed the Utah Municipal Risk Management Association and began operations by
entering into an agreement titled Interlocal Agreement Creating the Utah Risk Management
Association; and

       WHEREAS, the parties now desire to amend the Interlocal Agreement Creating the Utah
Municipal Risk Management Association to make various changes, updates, corrections and
additions by approving and adopting this First Amended and Restated Interlocal Agreement of the
Utah Risk Management Agency (“First Amended Agreement”).




                                                  1
      Now, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of all of the mutual benefits, covenants and
agreements contained herein, the parties mutually hereto agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE 1 (Definitions)

      1.1     The following definitions shall apply to the provisions of this First Amended
Agreement:
          (a)    “Agency” shall mean the Utah Risk Management Agency;
          (b)    “Board of Directors” or “Board” shall mean the governing body of the Agency;
          (c)    “Claims” shall mean demands made against the Agency or its Members arising
                 out of occurrences which are within the Agency’s Joint Protection Program;
          (d)    “Excess insurance” shall mean that insurance which may be purchased on
                 behalf of the Agency to protect the funds of the Agency against catastrophes or
                 an unusual frequency of losses during a single year;
          (e)    “Executive Director” shall mean the person appointed by the Board of Directors
                 who is the chief executive officer of the Agency, and is responsible for, among
                 other things, the management and administration of the Joint Protection
                 Program of the Agency;
          (f)    “Fiscal year” shall mean that period of twelve months which is established as
                 the fiscal year of the Agency;
          (g)    “Joint Protection Program” shall mean the program of establishing the risk
                 protection provided for in this First Amended Agreement;
          (h)    “Risk Coverage” shall mean and include joint protection through a funded
                 program or any commercial insurance contract.

                                     ARTICLE 2 (Purposes)

        2.1     This First Amended Agreement is entered into by the Members to provide more
comprehensive and economical risk coverage, to reduce the amount and frequency of Members’
losses, and to decrease the cost incurred by Members in the handling and litigation of claims. This
purpose shall be accomplished through the exercise of the powers of the Members jointly in
operating the Agency and administering the Joint Protection Program, whereby Members pool
their resources to protect against losses and claims, jointly purchase excess insurance (if available)
and obtain administrative services including claims adjusting, data processing, risk management
consulting, loss prevention, legal and related services.

                            ARTICLE 3 (Non-Wavier of Immunity)

       3.1     It is the express intent of the Members in entering into this First Amended
Agreement that they do not waive and are not waiving any immunity or limitation on liability
provided to the Members or their officials, employees, or agents by any law, including any such



                                                  2
immunity or limitation appearing in the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann.
§63G-7-101 et seq.

                                 ARTICLE 4 (Parties to Agreement)

        4.1      Each party to this First Amended Agreement certifies that it intends to and does
contract with all other Members that are signatories of this First Amended Agreement and, in
addition, with such other Members as may later be added to and become signatories of this First
Amended Agreement pursuant to Article 23. Each party to this First Amended Agreement also
certifies that the deletion of any Member from this First Amended Agreement, pursuant to Articles
24 and 25, shall not affect this First Amended Agreement nor such party’s intent to contract with
the other parties to the First Amended Agreement then remaining.

                                  ARTICLE 5 (Term of Agreement)

       5.1         This First Amended Agreement shall become effective upon:

             (a)      submission, approval, and execution of this First Amended Agreement by each
                      Member’s governing body and in accordance with Utah Code Ann. §11-13-
                      202(2);
             (b)      review and approval by the attorney authorized to represent each Member, in
                      accordance with Utah Code Ann. §11-13-202.5; and
             (c)      filing of this First Amended Agreement with the person who keeps each
                      Member’s records.

       5.2  The term of this First Amended Agreement shall be fifty (50) years, pursuant to
Utah Code Ann. §11-13-204, unless renewed as permitted by law, or until the Members dissolve
the Agency.

                                  ARTICLE 6 (Creation of Agency)

       6.1    The Agency, a separate and independent governmental organization, was formed
by agreement by Members pursuant to the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code
Ann. §11-13-1 et seq.

                                   ARTICLE 7 (Powers of Agency)

        7.1     The Agency has the powers common to governmental entities and is hereby
authorized to do all acts necessary for the exercise of said common powers, including, but not
limited to, any or all of the following:

             (a)      To make and enter into contracts;
             (b)      To incur debts, liabilities or obligations;

                                                     3
           (c)      To acquire, hold, or dispose of: property, contributions and donations of
                    property, funds, services and other forms of assistance from persons, firms,
                    corporations or governmental entities;
           (d)      To sue and be sued in its own name; and
           (e)      To exercise all powers necessary and proper to carry out the terms and
                    provisions of this First Amended Agreement, or otherwise authorized by law.

All powers of the Agency shall be exercised pursuant to the terms hereof, the By-Laws, and any
governing laws.

                            ARTICLE 8 (Voting Rights of Members)

        8.1     All votes of the Agency shall be weighted votes. Each Member shall be entitled to
one vote for each One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) of contribution paid by that Member for the
Joint Protection Program coverage then in effect. The votes will be calculated and implemented
effective July 1st of each year.

                     ARTICLE 9 (Liabilities and Obligations of the Agency)

       9.1      This First Amended Agreement shall not relieve any Member of any obligation or
responsibility imposed upon it by law except to the extent of actual and timely performance thereof
by the Agency, said performance may be offered in satisfaction of the obligation or responsibility.

                               ARTICLE 10 (Board of Directors)

       10.1 The Agency shall be governed by a Board of Directors, which is composed of a
representative from each Member. The Board of Directors shall be an elected or appointed official
of the Member. The manner of filing vacancies on the Board of Directors as well as the powers
and responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board is established in the By-Laws.

       10.2 The Board of Directors shall determine the number of members to serve on the
Executive Committee and may delegate an Executive Committee such powers and responsibilities
as the Board deems appropriate. The composition, manner of selection, and powers and
responsibilities of the Executive Committee are established in the By-Laws.

        10.3 In all matters voted upon by the Board of Directors, each member of the Board may
cast the same number of votes as the Member they represent may cast under Article 8.

                  ARTICLE 11 (Powers and Duties of the Board of Directors)

       11.1      The Board of Directors of the Agency shall have the following powers and duties:

           (a)      The Board of Directors shall appoint an Executive Director and any other
                    officers as appropriate;


                                                 4
(b)   The Board of Directors shall determine and select a Joint Protection Program
      for the Agency;
(c)   The Board of Directors shall determine and select all coverage, including excess
      insurance (if available), necessary to carry out the Joint Protection Program of
      the Agency;
(d)   The Board of Directors shall have authority to contract for or develop various
      services for the Agency, including claims adjusting, legal services, loss control,
      and risk management consulting services;
(e)   The Board of Directors shall cause to be prepared the operating budget of the
      Agency for each fiscal year;
(f)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to appoint committees;
(g)   The Board of Directors shall receive and act upon reports of appointed
      committees and the Executive Director;
(h)   The Board of Directors shall have the power to hire such persons as the Board
      deems necessary for the administration of the Agency, including the
      “borrowing” of employees from one or more of the Members, subject to the
      approval of the Member. Any Member whose employee is so “borrowed”
      according to this provision shall be reimbursed by the Agency for that
      employee’s time spent or services rendered on behalf of the Agency;
(i)   The Board of Directors shall have the general supervisory and policy control
      over the day-to-day decisions and administrative activities of the Executive
      Director of the Agency;
(j)   The Board of Directors shall provide for the investment and disbursement of
      funds;
(k)   The Board of Directors shall receive and review periodic accountings of all
      funds of the Agency;
(l)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to establish contributions by the
      Members;
(m)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to establish criteria for new
      Members;
(n)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to admit new Members on such
      terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;
(o)   The Board of Directors may establish membership standards that promote
      commitment to the Agency’s risk management requirements;
(p)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to establish rules governing its
      own conduct and procedure consistent with the By-Laws;
(q)   The Board of Directors shall have the authority to amend the By-Laws by a
      two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Board;
(r)   The Board of Directors shall have other powers and duties that are necessary
      for the operation or dissolution and winding up of the Agency and for the


                                    5
                   implementation of the By-Laws subject to the limits of this First Amended
                   Agreement and the By-Laws.

                     ARTICLES 12 (Meetings of the Board of Directors)

       12.1 The Board of Directors shall provide for its regular, adjourned regular, special and
adjourned special meetings. Such meetings shall be conducted quarterly or as often as directed by
a majority of the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The Board should hold at least one regular
meeting annually.

        12.2 Meetings may be conducted by telephonic or other technological means of
communication in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-
101 et seq.

        12.3 The Secretary of the Agency shall cause minutes of regular, adjourned regular,
special, and adjourned special meetings to be kept and shall, as soon as possible after each meeting,
cause a copy of the minutes to be available to each member of the Board.

       12.4 The presence of Board members entitled to cast a majority of the votes of the entire
Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business, except that less than a quorum
may adjourn from time to time. A majority vote of the total votes entitled to be cast by Board
members shall constitute action by the Board.

                             ARTICLE 13 (Meetings of Members)

       13.1 The frequency, format, method of voting, quorum requirements, and other rules
governing Member meetings are established by the By-Laws of the Agency.

                ARTICLE 14 (Officers, Agents and Personnel of the Agency)

        14.1 Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the Board and
shall have the general administrative responsibility for the activities of the Joint Protection
Program. The Executive Director is the chief executive officer of the Agency, and shall, subject to
the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the
business and officers of the Agency, and shall have such other and related duties as may be
prescribed by the Board of Directors or the By-Laws.

       14.2 Secretary. The Secretary shall be appointed by the Executive Director and shall be
responsible for all minutes, notices and records of the Agency and shall perform such other duties
as may be assigned by the Executive Director.

       14.3 Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be appointed by the Executive Director and
confirmed by the Board. The duties of the Treasurer are set forth in Articles 17 and 18 of this First
Amended Agreement.




                                                 6
       14.4 Legal Counsel. The Executive Director may select an attorney for the Agency who
may be a Member employee, or the Executive Director may employ independent counsel as the
attorney for the Agency. The attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the Executive Director.

       14.5 Other Officers, Agents, and Personnel. The Executive Director shall have the power
to appoint such other officers, agents and personnel as may be necessary in order to carry out the
purposes of this First Amended Agreement.

        14.6 Terms of Office, Removals and Resignations, Filling of Vacancies. Terms of office,
provisions for removal and resignation, and provisions for filling vacancies, and so forth are
established by the By-Laws.

                     ARTICLE 15 (Joint Protection Program Coverage)

        15.1 The Joint Protection Program coverage provided for Members by the Agency may
include protection for Personal Injury, Property Damage, Errors and Omissions, Comprehensive
Liability, Property Insurance coverages, and such other types of coverage required by law or
adopted by the Board of Directors.

        15.2 The Agency shall maintain a Joint Protection Program limit for Members
determined by the Board of Directors to be appropriate. The Board of Directors may arrange for
the purchase of insurance for Members interested in obtaining additional coverage above this limit,
at additional cost and fees to those participating Members.

       15.3 The Board of Directors may arrange for the purchase of any insurance deemed
necessary to protect the funds of the Agency against catastrophes.

       15.4 Each Member shall be required to purchase the Joint Protection Program coverages
defined by the Board of Directors as the “core joint protection coverage package.” The Agency
may provide other coverage to Members in addition to the core joint protection coverage package.

         15.5 The requirements of Section 15.4 may be waived by the Board at its option or, for
the first year of membership of any Member, the requirements of Section 15.4 may be waived if
that Member has otherwise purchased coverage.

                ARTICLE 16 (Development of the Joint Protection Program)

        16.1 The Board of Directors shall develop criteria for determining each Member's annual
share of pooled losses, capitalization needs, expenses, and contribution to a catastrophe fund which
may include the Member's individual loss experience and such other criteria as the Board of
Directors may determine to be relevant.

        16.2 The annual calculation of the amount of estimated contributions for the up-coming
fiscal year will be provided when requested by each Member.

                             ARTICLE 17 (Accounts and Records)


                                                 7
        17.1 Annual Budget. The Agency shall annually adopt an operating budget, pursuant to
Article 11 of this First Amended Agreement.

        17.2 Funds and Accounts. The Treasurer of the Agency shall establish and maintain such
funds and accounts as may be required by good accounting practice or by the Board of Directors.
Books and records of the Agency in the hands of the Treasurer shall be open to any inspection at
all reasonable times by Member representatives.

       17.3 Treasurer’s Report. Within ninety (90) days after the close of each fiscal year, the
Treasurer shall give a complete written report of all financial activities for such fiscal year to the
Board.

         17.4 Annual Audit. The Board of Directors shall provide for a certified, annual audit of
the accounts and records of the Agency, which audit shall conform to generally accepted auditing
standards. Such audit of the accounts and records made by a Certified Public Accountant(s) shall
be open to any inspection at all reasonable times by Member representatives. Any costs of the
audit, including contracts with, or employment of Certified Public Accountants, in making an audit
pursuant to this Article, shall be borne by the Agency and shall be included within the term
“administrative costs.”

                            ARTICLE 18 (Responsibility for Monies)

       18.1 The Treasurer of the Agency or their designee shall have the custody of and shall
disburse the Agency’s funds. The Treasurer shall have the authority to delegate the signatory
function of the Treasurer to such persons as are authorized by the Executive Director.

        18.2 A bond in the amount set by the Board of Directors shall be required of personnel
of the Agency consistent with Utah law. The cost of such bond will be paid by the Agency.

       18.3 The Treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate
and correct financial records of the Agency, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts
and disbursements, and shall have such other duties as are provided for in this First Amended
Agreement or by law.

                          ARTICLE 19 (Responsibilities of the Agency)

       19.1      The Agency shall have the responsibility to:

           (a)      Provide coverage as agreed upon and deemed necessary, including a self-
                    protection fund and commercial insurance, as well as excess coverage and
                    umbrella insurance (if available), by negotiation or bid, and purchase, as
                    necessary;
           (b)      Assist Members in obtaining insurance coverage for risks not included within
                    the core coverage of the Agency;
           (c)      Assist each Member’s designated risk manager with the implementation of that
                    function within the Member organization;
                                                  8
   (d)      Provide risk management related services to Members as deemed appropriate;
   (e)      Provide claims adjusting and subrogation services for claims covered by the
            Agency’s Joint Protection Program;
   (f)      Provide loss runs and other loss control information and services as deemed
            appropriate;
   (g)      Provide for the defense of any civil action or proceeding brought against any
            officer, employee, board member, or other agent of the Agency, in his or her
            official or individual capacity or both, on account of an act or omission within
            the scope of his or her agency as an agent of the Agency;
   (h)      Act in all other manners deemed necessary and appropriate by the Board of
            Directors in order to carry out the purpose of this First Amended Agreement.

                   ARTICLE 20 (Responsibilities of Members)

20.1     Each Member shall have the responsibility to:

   (a)      Pay its contribution and any other assessments promptly to the Agency when
            due. Any delinquent payments shall be paid with interest which shall be
            equivalent to the prevailing rate of investment interest. Payments will be
            considered delinquent immediately after the due date;
   (b)      Designate in writing an elected or appointed official to serve as a member of
            the Board of Directors. This designation may be changed from time to time;
   (c)      Designate a voting representative and alternate for Member meetings. A
            Member’s voting representative must be an elected official, employee or officer
            of the Member organization but may be changed from time to time. Each
            Member shall submit in writing the name of its voting representative and
            alternate to the Board of Directors;
   (d)      Appoint an employee of the Member to be responsible for the risk management
            function within that Member organization and to serve as a liaison between the
            Member and the Agency as to risk management;
   (e)      Provide the Agency with all information or assistance as may be necessary for
            the Agency to carry out the Joint Protection Program adopted by the Board of
            Directors, which includes reporting to the Agency as soon as reasonably
            possible the addition of new programs and facilities or the significant reduction
            or expansion of existing programs and facilities or other acts which will cause
            material changes in the Member’s accidental loss, and providing the Agency
            periodically, as requested, with information on the value of buildings and
            contents and other real and personal properties;
   (f)      Allow the Agency reasonable access to all facilities of the Member organization
            and all records relating to the operation of the Agency;


                                          9
           (g)     Report to the Agency as promptly as possible all incidents or occurrences which
                   could reasonably be expected to result in the Agency being required to consider
                   a claim against the Member, its agent, officer, or employees, or for casualty
                   losses to the Member’s property within the scope of coverage undertaken by
                   the Agency;
           (h)     Allow attorneys or other persons designated by the Agency to represent the
                   Member in the investigation, settlement and litigation of any claim made
                   against the Member within the scope of loss protection furnished by the
                   Agency;
           (i)     Cooperate with and assist the Agency, its attorneys, claims adjusters, and
                   insurers, and any other agent, employee, or officer of the Agency in all matters
                   relating to the Agency, and comply with all By-Laws, rules, and regulations
                   adopted by the Board of Directors.

                  ARTICLE 21 (Effective Date of the Interlocal Agreement)

                                     (Intentionally Omitted)

                        ARTICLE 22 (Commencement of Operations)

                                     (Intentionally Omitted)

                                  ARTICLE 23 (Membership)

       23.1 New Members may be admitted to the Agency upon approval of the Board of
Directors and execution of a counterpart of this First Amended Agreement.

        23.2 Members entering under this Article will pay their share of organizational expenses
as determined by the Board, including those necessary to analyze their loss data and determine
their contributions.

       23.3 As set forth in Article 11, the Board of Directors establishes the criteria for new
Members and has the authority to admit new Members on such terms and conditions as it deems
appropriate.

                                  ARTICLE 24 (Withdrawal)

        24.1 A Member that enters the Joint Protection Program may not withdraw as a party to
this First Amended Agreement and as a member of the Agency for a one-year period beginning on
the effective date of membership.

        24.2 After the initial one-year noncancelable membership in the program, a Member
may withdraw only at the end of any fiscal year, provided it has given the Agency a twelve-month
written notice of its intent to withdraw from this First Amended Agreement and the Joint Protection
Program.

                                                10
     24.3 Any Member that has formally provided its notice of intent to withdraw its
membership in the Agency shall:

           (a)     not be able to rescind its withdrawal notice without the approval of the Board
                   of Directors;
           (b)     pay or repay the Agency any monies owing to the Agency even though the
                   Member has withdrawn or is withdrawing; and
           (c)     not serve as a member of the Executive Committee or any other Agency
                   committees.

                                   ARTICLE 25 (Cancellation)

        25.1 The Agency shall have the right to cancel any Member’s participation in the Joint
Protection Program upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire Board of Directors giving ninety (90)
days written notice to that Member. Any Member so cancelled, on the effective date of the
cancellation, shall for the purposes of Article 26, be treated as if it had voluntarily withdrawn.

                              ARTICLE 26 (Effect of Withdrawal)

       26.1 The withdrawal of any Member form this First Amended Agreement shall not
terminate this First Amended Agreement.

       26.2 The withdrawal of any Member after the effective date of the Joint Protection
Program shall not terminate that Member’s responsibility to make any contributions or payments
owing to the Agency.

                         ARTICLE 27 (Termination and Distribution)

         27.1 This First Amended Agreement may be terminated by the written consent of the
Members having two thirds (2/3) of the voting rights of the Association, provided, however, that
this First Amended Agreement and the Agency shall continue to exist for the purpose of disposing
of all claims, distribution of assets, and all other functions necessary to wind up the affairs of the
Agency.

        27.2 Upon termination of this First Amended Agreement, all assets of the Agency shall
be distributed only among the parties that have been Members of the Joint Protection Program,
including any of those parties which previously withdrew pursuant to Article 24 of this First
Amended Agreement, but not including Members cancelled pursuant to Article 25, in accordance
with and proportionate to their contribution payments and property (at market value when
received) contributions made to the Agency. The Board of Directors shall determine such
distribution within six months after the last pending claim or loss covered by this First Amended
Agreement has been finally disposed of.

      27.3 The Board of Directors is vested with all powers of the Agency for the purpose of
winding up and dissolving the business affairs of the Agency.

                                                 11
                      ARTICLE 28 (Provision for By-Laws and Manual)

                                       (Intentionally Omitted)

                                      ARTICLE 29 (Notices)

       29.1 Notices to Members hereunder shall be sufficient if delivered in writing to the
designated representative of the respective Member, at the address provided.

                                   ARTICLE 30 (Amendment)

      30.1    Except as described in Section 30.2, this First Amended Agreement may not be
amended, changed, modified or altered except by an instrument in writing which shall be:

           (a)     submitted, approved, and executed by each Members’ governing body and in
                   accordance with Utah Code Ann. §11-13-202(2);
           (b)     reviewed and approved by the attorney authorized to represent each Member,
                   in accordance with Utah Code Ann. §11-13-202.5; and
           (c)     filed with the person who keeps each Member’s records.

        30.2 The Board of Directors may amend this First Amended Agreement without
following the procedures of Section 30.1 if the proposed amendment is minor, insignificant, or
clerical. The Board’s decision to amend this Agreement must be unanimous.

                        ARTICLE 31 (Prohibition Against Assignment)

       31.1 No Member may assign any right, claim, or interest it may have under this First
Amended Agreement, and no creditor, assignee, or third party beneficiary of any Member shall
have any right, claim or title to any part, share, interest, fund, contribution, or asset of the Agency.

                                ARTICLE 32 (Severability Clause)

       32.1 If any article, provision, clause, or other part of this First Amended Agreement is
held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of other articles, clauses,
applications, or occurrences, and this First Amended Agreement is expressly declared to be
severable.

                              ARTICLE 33 (Agreement Complete)

        33.1 This First Amended Agreement, along with the Agency’s By-Laws, constitute the
full and complete agreement of the parties. There are no oral understandings or agreements not set
forth in either this First Amended Agreement or the Agency’s By-Laws. This First Amended
Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of

                                                  12
which together will constitute one instrument. A signature transmitted by facsimile, e-mail, or
other comparable means will be deemed an original.

                        ARTICLE 34 (Liability and Indemnification)

       34.1 The Agency’s Board of Directors, officers, and employees shall use ordinary care
and reasonable diligence in the exercise of their powers and in the performance of their duties.

        34.2 The Agency’s Board of Directors, officers, and employees shall not be liable for
any action made, taken, or omitted, provided the action was made, taken, or omitted in good faith.

        34.3 The Agency’s Board of Directors, officers, and employees shall not be liable for
any action made, taken, or omitted by any other person.

        34.4 Agency funds shall be used to defend and indemnify the Agency’s Board of
Directors, officers, and employees against claims made against them, provided the claims arise out
of their operation of, administration of, or involvement with the Agency. The Agency may
purchase insurance providing similar coverage for such directors, officers, and employees.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this First Amended Agreement
by authorized officials thereof on the date indicated on the following pages.




                                               13
                                   DRAPER CITY :



                                   By: _____________________________
                                         Troy K. Walker, Mayor


APPROVE AS TO FORM:


____________________________
City Attorney


ATTEST:


________________________________
City Recorder




                                     14
