                                         ORDINANCE NO. 1450

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
         RELATING TO HBA PLAZA AT DRAPER AND THE CSD-136C (136 CENTER
         COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT) ZONE.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code to
guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of the Land Use and Development Code regarding HBA Plaza at Draper and the CSD-136C zone; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

    Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that the
    proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code in regards to HBA Plaza at
    Draper CSD136C zone: 1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
    of the city's general plan. 2. he proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
    existing development in the vicinity of the subject property. 3. There are adequate facilities and
    services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and
    recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
    and wastewater and refuse collection. 4. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose
    statements of the zoning ordinance. 5. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of
    the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 6. The
    proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general
    plan. 7. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to
    be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit. 8. The
    proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-5-060(D).

       Section 2.       Revision. The Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal
Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.




Ordinance No. 1450                                    1                                      HBA Plaza at Draper
                                                                                               Text Amendment
         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF _______, 2020.

                                                           DRAPER CITY


                                                           _____________________________
                                                           Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                                 YES                       NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1450                                    2                                       HBA Plaza at Draper
                                                                                                Text Amendment
                                       EXHIBIT A


            ARTICLE L. 136 CENTER COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT

9-18L-010: PURPOSE:
9-18L-020: PERMITTED USES:
9-18L-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
9-18L-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
9-18L-050: PARKING DESIGN:
9-18L-060: LIGHTING DESIGN:
9-18L-070: SIGNAGE:
9-18L-080: ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE:
9-18L-090: PROCEDURES:
9-18L-100: EXHIBITS:

9-18L-010: PURPOSE:


The 136 Center Commercial Special District contains approximately 25.54 28.09 acres,
located along 200 West and 13800 South as shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit A of
this article. The size of the property allows for a master-planned, mixed-use office park.
The Draper City General Plan's goals and objectives are reflected in the overall district
elements such as land use, architectural standards, signage, site design and landscape
standards. The Commercial District of the master plan aims to broaden the commercial
tax base of the City while providing amenities to the City residents. (Ord. 1361, 10-2-
2018)
9-18L-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards of the 136 Center Commercial Special District will guide the
design of the buildings, landscaping, parking and signage located within the district
boundaries. The master plan provides for office and retail development in designated
areas in accordance with the development standards set forth in this article.

A. Commercial District: The Commercial District is located along 200 West and may
   have retail pads along the 200 West frontage. All buildings within the Commercial
   District shall comply with the following development standards:

1. Office buildings:

a. Architecture: The architecture shall be the primary tool to create a strong sense of
   identity and place throughout the business park. All buildings will be articulated with
   use appropriate scale, form, materials, and colors carefully considered and
   incorporated throughout the development phases. However, different architectural
   styles will be considered and allowed in order to provide variety and identity to this
   area.
b. Character: All building facades shall have the same character each utilizing the same
   materials, colors, features, forms, and design elements appropriate to the scale of the
   various building sizes and depths as shown in section 9-18L-100, exhibit B of this
   article.

c. Building Materials:

(1) Building primary materials shall consist of granite, metal, composite metal panel,
  stone, EFIS, concrete, GFRC, tile, or other similar material as approved by Draper
  City staff.

d. Materials Required: More than one material shall be required on all building facades.

e. High Efficiency Glazing: Buildings shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) high
   efficiency glazing. Structural building elements, such as elevator shafts or stairwells,
   are excepted from this requirement.

f. Primary Material: Buildings shall use a minimum of fifty percent (50%) primary
   material.

g. Entry Features: Buildings shall have notable entry features which could include:

(1) An arch or canopy over entry doors.

(2) Colors or materials that highlight the entry.

(3) Entry doors and lobby that extend beyond or are recessed behind the main footprint
  of the building.

h. Building Height: No building shall be taller than four hundred twenty two feet (422') or
   approximately thirty (30) floors, not including the mechanical penthouse.

i. Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either
   by enclosure, parapet wall, or line of sight.

j. Dumpsters: Dumpsters shall be enclosed within a decorative masonry, split face CMU
   or honed CMU enclosure.

k. Front Setback: The minimum front setback from right-of-way shall be ten feet (10').

9-18L-040: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:

Landscape design will be a major component of the 136 Center commercial special
district. The overall project will be landscaped with sensitivity to its environment. A
consistent palette of drought tolerant tree types, plant materials, and ground covers will
be incorporated throughout in relation to the architecture to create a strong and
consistent sense of place and identity. The tree and plant palette will be submitted in
conjunction with specific site plan approval application for each phase. The landscape
design shall comply with the following standards:

A. The landscaping shall define and enhance primary public entrances into the campus.


B. Ornamental landscaping shall be strategically designed to provide intimate outdoor
   spaces for public amenities and at pedestrian pathways and entrances as shown in
   section 9-18L-100, exhibit F of this article.


C. The landscape buffer around the park shall be provided to obscure parking fields
   from street view.


D. A landscaping buffer of ten feet (10') of vegetation along 200 West will provide a
   vegetative shield of the parking area.


E. The main corridor that goes east to west through the project shall be lined with trees
   on both sides. Forty foot (40') maximum tree spaces shall be required for this
   corridor.


F. Tree palette shall be a combination of deciduous and nondeciduous trees and shade
    and ornamental trees.


G. The initial tree size shall have a minimum two-inch (2") caliper and be a minimum of
   six feet (6') high.


H. The minimum landscape percentage for the park shall be twenty percent (20%)
   inclusive of all phases.


I. Landscaping berms measuring three feet (3') in height will be used around the
    perimeter of the project to help minimize the visual impact of the parking field. The
    landscape berm shall not be required on the eastern boundary of the zone that abuts
    Interstate 15 right-of-way from Bangerter Highway to 13800 South.

9-18L-070: SIGNAGE:

Signage design and location will be an important component of the 136 Center
commercial special district. All signs shall be reviewed and approved by the 136 Center
commercial special district architectural review committee. Allowed signage shall
include:

A. One monument sign will be allowed per building. Each monument sign shall have a
   uniform, architecturally compatible design consistent with the 136 Center
   commercial special district design theme with faces not larger than one hundred
   (100) square feet. Locations must be approved by the city to ensure clearance of
   sight distance requirements at entries and adequate separation for readability.
   Monument signs shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in
   width. Please see section 9-18L-100, exhibit H of this article.


B. In addition to monument signs allowed per building, two (2) monument signs shall be
    allowed to the business park fronting 200 West and one monument sign along
    13800 South. They will follow the same monument guidelines as stated above.


C. Wall signage may be installed by individual businesses/buildings on freestanding and
   in-line single-/multi-tenant buildings. Such signs shall have individually illuminated
   letters or decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets are utilized, they shall be
   built into the architectural fascia.


D. Wall signage shall be allowed at two (2) square feet of wall signage for every one
   linear foot of building length.


E. Wayfinding signs will be allowed in the project. Height shall not exceed eight feet (8').
   The area of the sign shall not exceed one hundred feet (100').


F. Suspended or blade type projecting signs may be provided along pedestrian
   walkways and shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the
   pavement.


G. Flags shall be allowed along the main corridor for up to one week per business as
   permitted through Draper City. Banners shall be allowed subject to existing Draper
   code.


H. One Two pole signs shall be permitted on the I-15 frontage. This These signs may be
   a multi-tenant sign, shall be designed to be architecturally compatible with the office
   park design theme and shall be no taller than thirty five feet (35') and no wider than
   twenty five feet (25').
I. The pole signs may have LED lighting subject to subsection 9-26-090D of this title.
    (Ord. 1220, 8-2-2016)

9-18L-100: EXHIBITS:
EXHIBIT A
PROPERTY AND SITE PLAN




(Ord. 1361, 10-2-2018)
EXHIBIT B
EXAMPLE OFFICE BUILDINGS
EXHIBIT H
SIGNAGE
