Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: January 21, 2020
Re: Offices on 7th Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment Comments: This item was originally scheduled for the November 19, 2019 City Council agenda. The applicant asked for the item to be continued in order to allow for them to apply for a Development Agreement. At this time, the applicant is asking for an additional continuance to work through the Development Agreement application process.
The subject property consists of two contiguous parcels located on the northwest quadrant of 700 East and Pioneer Road.  The applicant’s intent is to build a two-story building that would house a personal instruction use on the main floor and an office use on the upper floor, both of which are permitted uses in the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) zone.  The city has a policy that a proposed zone change shall comply with the General Plan designation, which means the underlying land use designation needs to be changed to Neighborhood Commercial.
The Planning Commission made a negative recommendation on both the land use map amendment and the zoning map amendment with a 3-2 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. That the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
2. That the facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are adequate.
3. The proposed amendment complies with the findings in Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC.
4. The proposed amendment complies with the criteria in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
a. Zoning categories that are contemplated for the Neighborhood Commercial land use area allow uses that are not compatible with existing development and could harm the interests of those living and working in the area.
2. The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate for an area that is dominated by residential uses.
3. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property due to the additional types of uses that would be allowed.
4. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Land Use Ordinance 1410 1/15/2020 Cover Memo Zoning Map Amendment Ordinance 1411 1/15/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/15/2020 Cover Memo