Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis VanEkelenburg
CC:  Date: September 3, 2020
Re: Park Crossing Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Amendment for approximately 3.7 acres located on the south side of 12300 South, at approximately 675 W, 679 W, 681 W, & 693 W 12300 S.  The properties are currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) and CC (Community Commercial). T he current use on the subject properties are single family residential homes built in the 1930’s and 1940’s or undeveloped land. If approved, the applicant is proposing a multi-family townhome development of 41 units to be reviewed under a separate application. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property;
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.    The request complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
For Denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property;
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The request does not comply with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 8/31/2020 Cover Memo