                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                              December 2, 2019

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: December 12, 2019

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       The Exchange at 140th Building C – Site Plan Request
          Application No.:  SPR-850-2019
          Applicant:        Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group
          Project Location: 14068 South 145 East
          Current Zoning:   CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:          2.15 Acres (Approximately 93,654 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a site plan in the CR (Regional Commercial) zone
                            regarding a new office building.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan for approximately 2.15 acres located within the
Exchange at 140th office complex, at approximately 14068 South 145 East. The property is currently
zoned CR (Regional Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for
the development of the currently vacant site as an office building.

The Wadsworth office campus known as The Exchange at 140th includes 13.12 acres and six buildings.
The site plan for the first phase was approved in May of 2006. Building C obtained site plan approval in
2016, but that approval expired before any construction took place.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Regional Commercial land
use designation for the subject property. In error, the Regional Commercial land use designation was not
included in the General Plan update. An amendment will be sought to add this designation into the plan. It
is included on the land use map.

The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification. The purpose of the CR zone is to “provide
areas where a combination of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related
uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the city.”




The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                           App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                       1
The property abuts the CR zone on the north, east, and south sides, and the CG (General Commercial)
zoning to the west.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant is proposing a single three-story building. The building will be located
close to the center of the complex, and will finish the remaining portion of the development. Existing
drive aisles will be continued through the subject site and connect to the adjacent site plan areas. The
building will be located to the south of Building B, with an open space area between the buildings and
parking on the other three sides of the building.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The individual site plan contains 11,977 square feet of landscaping, or
13% overall site landscaping. Since this is part of a larger phased development, the overall project meets
the minimum required landscaping amount at 23% overall campus landscaping. The Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) requires at least 20% overall. The landscape plan includes heavy landscaping
around the building, and within the parking lot. The majority of perimeter landscaping has already been
installed, except for along the western property line. The applicant is providing the required 10-foot
landscape buffer, with trees.

Parking. According to DCMC Section 9-25-100 the office use is required to have a parking range of 132-
161 stalls. The site has a total of 135 stalls. The overall complex has 718 stalls, with a required min/max
range of 688-840 parking spaces. The applicant is requesting a deviation to allow tree diamonds within
the parking lot. This is consistent with the last site plan for the complex. The older buildings do not have
tree diamonds or landscape medians between parking rows as they pre-date the code. In order to approve
a deviation, the Planning Commission must find the following:

          DCMC 9-25-080(H)(2)(a):
          (1)  The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
          (2)  The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in order to
               implement such landscaping; and
          (3)  Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces or
               reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such landscaping.

Because of site constraints (building size, parking and landscaping requirements), in order to provide such
medians, the site would have to lose parking stalls. This is because they cannot afford to lose any more
landscaping, there are requirements for drive aisle widths and parking stall depths and widths. The
original overall site plan set in place general circulation and the split in landscaping amounts for each
building so that the overall complex would have the required parking and landscape amounts.

Architecture. The applicant is proposing to match the existing buildings in architecture. The building will
be 43-feet tall. The code allows up to 45-feet in height. The building will feature EIFS (Exterior
Insulation and Finish System), fiber cement siding, stone, and corrugated metal. The applicant is
requesting two deviations for the building in order to have a consistent architectural design within the
office complex. The first is for the building materials, in order to allow the use of corrugated sheet metal
and the use of EIFS in greater quantity then allowed by code. The DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) limits
secondary materials, such as EIFS, to 25% or less of each building façade, and prohibits corrugated sheet
metal. The applicant is proposing to use 19-23% of EIFS and 13-14% corrugated sheet metal on each
side.

The second architectural deviation is a request to design standards for façade length without a significant
façade variation. DCMC Section 9-22-040(C) requires buildings with over 100-feet of total length to have
at least one significant façade variation of at least 5-feet in depth and 20-feet in width. While the building
does have façade plane variations, none equal the minimum depth and width listed in the code.



The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                             App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                     2
Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict
compliance with the terms of the Code regarding development design standards for architecture. DCMC
Section 9-22-030 states that the Planning Commission may approve architectural plans associated with
development applications that deviate from the requirements of the DCMC based on making at least three
of the required findings. Those findings, according to section 9-22-030(B), are that the deviation:

            1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
               required in the development code and site plan review.
            2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds
               the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
            3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a
               transportation facility.
            4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative design,
               traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.
            5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
            6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan
               or ordinance.
            7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve
               redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or
               new buildings within a previously approved phased project.
            8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more
               than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination
               thereof.
            9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which
               utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter
               and is designed by a licensed architect.
            10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than
               the minimum required amount.

The applicant has stated the site plan complies with criteria 2, 6, 7, and 9. A request letter has been
included as Exhibit H of this report.

Lighting. The applicant is providing five light poles within the parking lot, and lights along the building
façade. A photometric illumination plan has been provided for the property for during operating hours and
after hours and the proposed lighting complies with the code.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a site plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

          E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
                and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.



The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                             App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                      3
               5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
                  8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                  concerns.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the site plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the site plan submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the site plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC., in working with the Draper
City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the geotechnical and geologic
hazards report submitted as a part of the site plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any,
can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the site plan submission.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.         That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                     and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                     construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.         That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                     of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
          3.         Return original notarized copy of Maintenance Agreement, with legal boundary
                     description for subject property as Exhibit A and the site drawings and details included.
          4.         Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) the site plan will expire within one year if a land disturbance
                     permit is not issued. A one-time six month extension can be requested in writing prior to
                     the expiration date.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.         A phased development plan has been approved.



The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                               App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                        4
          2.         The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                     limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                     materials.
          3.         The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                     plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
          4.         The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                     development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
          5.         The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                     7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                     concerns.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.         The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                     not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                     building materials.


MODEL MOTIONS

Building Material Deviation:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to building materials, as requested
by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C
Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated December 2, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to building materials, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th
Building C Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to building materials, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site
Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019.


Deviation to Façade Variation:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to façade variation, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site
Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated December 2, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to façade variation, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th
Building C Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…




The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                                  App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                          5
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to façade variation, as requested by
Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site
Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019.


Deviation for Parking Lot Tree Diamonds:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation for parking lot tree diamonds, as
requested by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th
Building C Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation for parking lot tree
diamonds, as requested by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The
Exchange at 140th Building C Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation for parking lot tree diamonds, as requested
by Elizabeth Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C
Site Plan, application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 2,
2019.


Site Plan:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site Plan, application
SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
December 2, 2019.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Elizabeth
Cole, representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site Plan,
application SPR-850-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated December 2, 2019 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested by Elizabeth Cole,
representing Wadsworth Development Group for The Exchange at 140th Building C Site Plan, application
SPR-850-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 2, 2019.




The Exchange at 140th Building C                                                          App. # SPR-850-2019
Site Plan Request                                    6
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      Provide architectural details for concrete planter and seating.
       2.      Provide a note on the lighting plan that the maximum pole height is 20-feet per DCMC
               Section 9-20-040(F)(7).

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Return original notarized copy of Maintenance Agreement, with legal boundary
               description for subject property as Exhibit A. See attached Agreement Template.
       2.      Include site drawings and details, currently section is blank.
       3.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
               construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
               required prior to Building Permit issuance. – Informational comment, no action required
               at this time.
       4.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
               the Engineering Division. – Informational comment, no action required at this time.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six
               (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
               inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
               imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
               driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
               feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
               permits being issued.
       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
               Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department
               prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any
               of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
               permits could be revoked.
       3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
               water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
               being received or delivered on building site.
       4.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
               drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A
               complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans
               must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to
               be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking
               Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO
               BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
       5.      Standpipes Are Required. This building may be required to have standpipes. This
      standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor Certificate of
      Completion will be required to be filled out.
6.    Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser
      room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted
      P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building
      with a tamper switch.
7.    Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent
      via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set
      of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped
      by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS
      REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER
      FIRE DEPARTMENT.
8.    Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio coverage
      shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.
9.    Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An emergency
      voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.
10.   Two-way communication will be Required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2015 IFC.
11.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
      exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access
      to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box
      purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached information form.
12.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
      numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
      shall contrast with their background.
13.   2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
      meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
      location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
      every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
      mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
    EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUEST
