                                              Development Review Committee
                                                  1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                     Draper, UT 84020


                                                    STAFF REPORT
                                                    December 15, 2020

To:       Draper City Council
          Business Date: December 15, 2020

From: Tom Draper, Engineer
      801-576-6536, tom.draper@draper.ut.us

Re:       Ordinance 1470: Vacating Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield Circle
          Application No.:  N/A
          Applicant:        Exeter Draper Land LLC
          Project Location: Greenfield Farms Subdivision
          Acreage:          Approximately 91,036 ft2
          Request:          Vacations of Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield Circle as public rights-of
                            way.


SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval to vacate public rights-of-way known as Wheatfield Way (40
West) and Wheatfield Circle (13015 South) in the Greenfield Farms Subdivision. The rights-of-way area
is approximately 91,036 square feet (Exhibit A). The property was recently rezoned M1 (Exhibit B).


BACKGROUND
The section of property was determined to be not needed by the City as public right-of-way. The
Greenfield Farm Subdivision has been purchased by Exeter Draper Land LLC with the intent to develop it
into a commercial development. The public rights-of-way must be vacated in order to consolidate the land
into a new single lot and move forward with the redevelopment process.




Declaring Portion of 12100 South as Surplus                                                    App. # N/A
                                                           1
Site Plan Layout




Criteria for Approval.

The public rights-of-way as described are now longer in the public interest to be kept as public right-of-
way. The city or the public does not require this parcel currently or in the future for municipal or public
use. The declaration of vacation of this property complies with city and state codes.


REVIEWS

Engineering and Public Works Department Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Department have completed their reviews of the uses and needs of this property and ordinance to vacate
these rights-of-way and have issued a recommendation for approval.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




Declaring Portion of 12100 South as Surplus                                                         App. # N/A
                                                      2
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the City Council review
the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the findings listed below and
the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report and subject to the conditions below:

          1.         The vacations are required for the redevelopment of the property to move forward.
          2.         Property is no longer needed for present or future public infrastructure or right-of-way
                     uses.
          3.         There is good cause for the vacations.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.         Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacations.
          2.         The parcel is not required for city or public uses now or in the future.
          3.         The ordinance to vacate these rights-of-way complies with city and state codes.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – “I move that we approve the request to approve Ordinance #1470 to vacate
the public rights-of-way known as Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield Circle in their entirety located within
the Greenfield Farms Subdivision, based on the findings and subject to the condition listed in the staff
report dated December 15, 2020”.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval – “I move that we approve the request to approve Ordinance #1470
to vacate the public rights-of-way known as Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield Circle in their entirety
located within the Greenfield Farms Subdivision, based on the findings and subject to the condition listed
in the staff report dated December 15, 2020 and as modified by the additional conditions below:”

          1.         List any additional and conditions…




Declaring Portion of 12100 South as Surplus                                                             App. # N/A
                                                          3
EXHIBIT A
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT B
ZONING MAP
