                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                                June 29, 2020

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: July 9, 2020

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Draper Cove Phase 2 – Site Plan Request
          Application No.:  SPR-957-2020
          Applicant:        Adam Orme, representing Gould Plus Architects
          Project Location: 12391 South 800 East
          Current Zoning:   TC (Town Center) Zone
          Acreage:          0.42 Acres (Approximately 18,295 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan in the TC (Town Center) zone regarding
                            the redevelopment of 0.42 acres of property into a commercial and office
                            development.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 0.42 acres located in the
northeast corner of Pioneer Road and 800 East, at approximately 12391 South 800 East (Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned TC (Town Center). The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to
allow for the development of the properties into a commercial and office development.

The site includes two properties. These properties are part of the Draperville Plat and until recently
contained residential uses. The property owner demolished the homes earlier this year in anticipation of
development.

      1. 28-29-310-006- contained one house built in 1931
      2. 28-29-310-005- contained a duplex built in 1928

Draper Cove Phase 1 is located directly to the east of this site and obtained approval in 2019. It is
currently under construction.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Town Center land use
designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as follows:




Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                          App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                       1
The property has been assigned the TC zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the TC zone is to “provide a method for
implementing special provisions found within the general plan and the Draper City conservation area
master plan regarding the establishment and promotion of a historic core area of the community
characterized by stringent design standards for buildings, public spaces, site design and landscaping with
a harmonious mix of commercial uses, limited high density residential uses and civic areas.” The TC
zoning abuts the subject property on all four sides. There is also a property to the west that is located
within the RM1 (Multi-family Residential, up to 8 dwelling units maximum) zone.

Site Plan Layout. The site plan contains a two story building fronting onto Pioneer Road with parking
located behind the building (Exhibit E).There will be one ingress/egress location from 800 East. In
addition, on-street parking will be provided along both 800 East and Pioneer Rd. The building will be set
back 5-feet from the public right-of-way. The TC zone has a maximum building setback of 15-feet.
Pedestrian walkways will be provided around the front and back of the site, connecting not only to the
public sidewalk on both 800 East and Pioneer Rd, but also to the plaza area within Phase 1.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping plan shows a total of 2,759 square feet of landscaping
on site (Exhibit F). This equals about 15% of the site, and complies with the minimum amount of
landscaping required by the TC zone. The building has a 2,913 square foot footprint creating a 15% lot
coverage amount. The TC zone allows up to 50% of the site to be covered in buildings. The applicant is
providing 17 trees, while 7 trees are required. An arborist conducted a tree inventory of all trees on site



Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                         App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                     2
and determined that all the trees were Siberian Elms and should not be kept due to their species and poor
quality. There were several other trees that appeared to be within the front or side yard of the homes, but
were in fact located within the public right-of-way. Extensive landscaping is being provided within the
parking lot, at the entrance to the site, along the building, and at the intersection. The site plan shows a
decorative design at the intersection of 800 East and Pioneer Rd, with additional landscaping and concrete
paving areas which connect to the brick pavers at the entrances into the building.

Parking. According to the TC zone, parking standards shall comply with the regular parking regulations
found within DCMC Chapter 9-25, unless the Planning Commission approves a shared parking
configuration. The site complies with DCMC Chapter 9-25 standards (Exhibit E). The building will
contain five units, and a total of 12,900 square feet of area. This space will include retail, office, and
storage space. It is anticipated that 55% of the area will be utilized for retail and 45% of the area will be
utilized for office. With this breakdown, the site is required to contain a min/max parking range of 21-26
parking spaces. The applicant is providing 22 stalls on site. In addition, the applicant is providing 15 on-
street parking spaces. There will be a total of 37 parking spaces to serve the property.

Architecture. The proposed buildings match Phase 1 in architectural style and design (Exhibit G). The
building will be 30-feet tall and contain brick, EIFS, and white cedar trim. The TC zone limits buildings
to 35-feet or less in building height. It also requires the building to contain at least 80% brick on all four
sides of the building. The applicant is providing 80% to 96% brick on the building façade. The TC zone
requires fenestration to equal at least 50% of the ground floor for facades facing the street or parking
areas. The building contains 50% windows on both sides facing the public roadway, and facing the
parking lot. The east façade contains 25% windows, as allowed by code since it does not face a street or
parking area.

Lighting. The site will contain decorative lighting around the building appropriate for the time era of the
TC zone. The two lamp poles within the parking lot will contain more contemporary lamp styles in order
to ensure proper diffusion of the light at the north property line. A residential home is located to the north
of the site and the applicant is providing a 0.0 foot candle level at the north property line.

Fencing. The TC zone discourages fencing except for in certain circumstances: designating outdoor
dining areas and as a buffer to residential uses. For sites located adjacent to residential uses, the TC zone
calls for a 6-foot tall upgraded decorative masonry wall. The applicant is requesting a deviation to the
fencing requirement along the north adjacent to a residential home (Exhibit H). The house to the north
was built in 1956 and encroaches onto the subject property by 0.8-feet. It is essentially built on the
property line. The residents currently have a 3-foot tall masonry wall along the property line, running
from the house to 800 East. There is also a 25-feet section of 6-foot tall masonry wall along the rear yard
area of the home. These walls will remain. The applicant is proposing to install a 6-foot tall masonry wall,
to match what was built in Phase 1, from the eastern property line to the 25-foot wall section. The
applicant is requesting to not install a wall along the house itself. Because the house is located at the
property line, installing a fence at this location would require a fence to be installed at least 2-feet to the
south of the home to avoid the homes foundation. This would require site improvements to be shifted by
2-feet and would dramatically impact the site design. The applicant has provided more than twice the
amount of landscaping required along the north property line, including 5 trees and many shrubs. Two
trees are required along the north property line. DCMC Section 9-11-090(D)(1)(h)(2) allows the Planning
Commission to approve a deviation to the fencing standard if they find that fencing is not desirable and
adequate buffering has been provided.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:



Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                            App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                      3
          E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
                and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
             5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
                8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                concerns.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a fencing deviation within the TC zone is found in
Sections 9-11-090(D)(1)(h)(2) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

          (2) Upgraded decorative masonry fencing along a rear or side property line which does not
              exceed six feet (6') in height for the purpose of separating commercial and residential uses.
              Where, in this circumstance, fencing is not desirable, adequate buffering, to the satisfaction of
              the Planning Commission, containing significant plantings and setbacks shall be required.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the Draper
City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the geotechnical report submitted
as a part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Historic Preservation Committee Review. The Draper City Historic Preservation Committee has
completed their review of the Site Plan submission. Comments from this committee, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                           App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                      4
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.          That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                      and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                      construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.          That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                      of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
          3.          Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
                      construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
                      required prior to Building Permit issuance.
          4.          That the two properties be combined into one lot prior to issuance of a building permit.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.          The entire site is being developed as a phased development plan.
          2.          The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                      limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                      materials.
          3.          The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                      plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
          4.          The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
          5.          The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                      7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                      concerns.
          6.          The site plan contains adequate buffering and significant plantings and setbacks in lieu of
                      a fence adjacent to the house located to the north of the site.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.          The entire site is not being developed at one time.
          2.          The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
                      not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
                      building materials.
          3.          The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                      general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
          4.          The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
                      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
          5.          The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in
                      Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
                      utilities concerns.
          6.          The site plan does not contain adequate buffering and significant plantings and setbacks
                      in lieu of a fence adjacent to the house located to the north of the site.




Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                               App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                          5
MODEL MOTIONS

Fencing Deviation:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the fencing deviation to DCMC Section 9-11-
090(D)(1)(h)(2), as requested by Adam Orme, representing Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove Phase
2, application SPR-957-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated June 29, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the fencing deviation to DCMC Section
9-11-090(D)(1)(h)(2), as requested by Adam Orme, representing Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove
Phase 2, application SPR-957-2020 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated June 29, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the fencing deviation to DCMC Section 9-11-
090(D)(1)(h)(2), as requested by Adam Orme, representing Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove Phase
2, application SPR-957-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2020.


Site Plan:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Adam Orme,
representing Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove Phase 2, application SPR-957-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Adam
Orme, representing Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove Phase 2, application SPR-957-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2020 and as modified
by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested by Adam Orme, representing
Gould Plus Architects for Draper Cove Phase 2, application SPR-957-2020, based on the findings listed
in the Staff Report dated June 29, 2020.




Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                       App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                    6
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.

                                                                                                                                        Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                      Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                                                DN: C=US,
                                                                                                                                        E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
Brien Maxfield
                      DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,
                      ou, email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us,                                                      Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer
                      c=US                                                                                                              Jastremsky
__________________________________
                      Date: 2020.06.30 08:58:21 -06'00'                                                           __________________________________
                                                                                                                                        Date: 2020.06.28 15:48:08-06'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                                               Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                                                  Mike   Barker
                                                                                                                                        Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                            Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                                                             DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City
                            DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                                                       Attorney, email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US

  Don Buckley
__________________________________
                            O="Draper City Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal,
                            CN=Don Buckley
                            Date: 2020.06.29 16:05:37-06'00'
                                                                                                                  __________________________________
                                                                                                                                        Date: 2020.06.29 09:30:47 -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                                                       Draper City Legal Counsel

                              Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                              DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City, OU=Building Dept,
                              CN=Keith Collier



 Keith Collier                Location: Home
                              Reason: I agree to the terms defined by the placement of my signature on this


__________________________________
                              document
                              Contact Info: Keith Collier
                              Date: 2020.06.29 09:07:13-06'00'




Draper City Building Division




Draper Cove Phase 2                                                                                                                                          App. # SPR-957-2020
Site Plan Request                                                                                             7
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed development complies with the TC zone requirements in regards to
               architecture, parking, and landscaping.
       2.      The deviation to fencing seems reasonable given the encroachment of the existing home
               to the north on the property line, and the home also being located within the TC zone.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement are now required for every private storm
               drainage system, per DCMC 16-2-170. It is required to be recorded and returned to the
               city prior to issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit for construction of the site.
       2.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
               construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
               required prior to Building Permit issuance.
       3.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
               the Engineering Division.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      Based substantially in and on reliance of the technical documentation and assurances
               provided by AGEC, including their opinions and conclusions, it is TG’s opinion that the
               AGEC January 16, 2020, submittal combined with the March 19, 2020, submittal, has
               adequately addressed geologic hazards and geotechnical parameters at the site, consistent
               with concerns for public health, safety, welfare, reasonable professional standards of
               practice; and, the Draper City Geologic Hazards Ordinance.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six
               (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
               inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
               imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
               driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
               feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
               permits being issued.
       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
               Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department
               prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any
               of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
               permits could be revoked.
       3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
               water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
               being received or delivered on building site.
       4.      Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
               drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A
               complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans
               must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to
               be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking
               Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO
               BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
       5.      Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser
               room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted
               P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building
               with a tamper switch.
       6.      Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent
               via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set
               of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped
               by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS
               REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER
               FIRE DEPARTMENT.
       7.      Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
               exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access
               to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box
               purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached information form.
       8.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
               meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
               location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
               every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
               mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
       9.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
               numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
               shall contrast with their background.

Historic Preservation Committee Review.

       1.      [The committee Chair has] looked at the phase two of Draper Cove property and feel that
               the Draper Historic Preservation Commission has no reason to not give our stamp of
               approval on this project.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                       SHEDDING CURB
                                                                                                                                       AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXISTING BRICK                                                                                                                                   EXISTING 6' TALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALL 3' TALL                                                                                                                                  BLOCK WALL                                                                                                                                                                     PARKING ANALYSIS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.13'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.86'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.5 SPACES PER 1,000 SQUARE FEET (RETAIL)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH EXISTING 6' TALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BLOCK WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4 SPACES PER 1,000 SQUARE FEET (OFFICE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.5 SPACES PER 1,000 SQUARE FEET (STORAGE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INSTALL 30" CITY CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE = 12,900 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND GUTTER SEE DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSTALL CATCH BASIN SEE CU-100                                                                                     INSTALL CATCH BASIN SEE CU-100                                                                                                                                   RETAIL (55% 1ST LEVEL) = ((3,548 / 1,000) x 2.5) = 8.87 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST-10 ON CS-101                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OFFICE (45% 1ST LEVEL) = ((2,902 / 1,000) x 4) = 11.60 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STORATGE (2ND LEVEL) = ((6,450 / 1,000) x 0.5) = 3.22 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE TRIANGLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED                   = 23.69 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED WITH 10% REDUCTION ALLOWED BY CODE = 21.32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R2.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  . 00                                                                                               1                                                                                                                                            INSTALL 24" CURB SEE                                                                                                                           STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DETAIL 01 ON SHEET CS-104




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVIDED:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL ON SITE PARKING PROVIDED = 22 STALLS (1-22)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .95                     '                                                 ON STREET PARKING PROVIDED = 15 STALLS (A-O)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R1                 .95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R1                                                           TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED = 37 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.00'                                                                                        12.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                   INSTALL TRASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENCLOSURE WITH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STORM TECH MANHOLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HANDICAP REQUIRED = 1 / HANDICAP PROVIDED = 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0
                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL COMMERCIAL                                                                                                                                                                SEE CU-106 THROUGH CU-111                                                                                                                            CONCRETE APRON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE CS-103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                          APPROACH PER CITY DETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               QUANTITIES
                                                                                                                                                                              ST-09 ON SHEET CS-101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALL SIDEWALK PER DETAILS ON CU-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16.66'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16.67'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.67'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT AREA = .43 ACRES (18,732 SF)
                                                                                                                                                                              800 EAST STREET                                                                                                                      TAPER CURB AND GUTTER FROM                                                     INSTALL 24" SHEDDING CURB SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DETAIL 02 ON SHEET CS-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL CONCRETE =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL ASPHALT =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,017 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,506 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLAT TO FULL CURB AT SIDWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERSECTION                                                                                                                                           INSTALL 6'Lx9"Wx5"H CONCRETE                                                                                                                                           TOTAL LANDSCAPING = 2,759 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BUILDING =            2,913 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WHEEL STOP (TYP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.    24" SHEDDING CURB (HIGHBACK) = 84 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8.00'                                                                  2.    24" SHEDDING CURB (FLUSH) = 95 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                      PLACE WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22                 11.52'                                                                                         3.    24" HIGH BACK CURB = 213 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     VALVES OUT OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                           GUTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W                                                                                                                                                                                   14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. 30" CURB AND GUTTER = 421 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2. 4' WATERWAY = 253 LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.39'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3. 7' WIDE SIDEWALK = 286 LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TAPER HIGHBACK CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TAPER HIGHBACK CURB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. SAW CUT ASPHALT = 340 LF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND GUTTER TO FLUSH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND GUTTER TO FLUSH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. TOTAL ROW AREA TO BE CONSTRUCTED=9,403 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL 2" WATER METER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TRANSITION SHED                                        SEE CU-100
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO CATCH CURB                                                                                                                                     SITE TRIANGLE                     14.00'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL FLUSH CURB PER DETAIL 02 SHEET CS-104                                                                                                                                                       MATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           POWER POLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.73'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INSTALL ROOF DRAIN                                                         INSTALL ROOF DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEE CU-100                                                                                                                                                            INSTALL ROOF DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INSTALL 30" SHEDDING                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEE CU-100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE CU-100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4.00'                                             CURB AND GUTTER SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                INSTALL 4' WATER                                                                       DETAIL 2B ON CS-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                 WAY PER DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                    04 ON CS-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              807 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PIONEER RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                TRANSITION SHED                                                               5.57'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO CATCH CURB                                 D

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '                     1 STAIR 7.75" RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.00'                                                                                                         49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.00'                                                 8.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R1                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '
                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSTALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADA RAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           POWER POLE                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSTALL SIDEWALK PER CITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INSTALL RELOCATED                                                                                                                    DETAILS ON ST-10, SHEET CS-102                                                                                                                                                                             MATCH EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                  INSTALL ADA RAMP                                                                       COMM BOX PER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                           PER CITY DETAIL ST-04 AND                                                                     UTILITY COMPANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7.00'




                                                                                                                                                                              ST-05 ON SHEET CU-102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   POWER POLE
X:\Active Projects\19045 Draper Cove Phase II\04 Design\Drawings\Design\Plan Sheets\CS-Civil Site\Site Plan.dwg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INSTALL 30" SHEDDING                                                                                                                                                                       AND COMM BOX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                                        CURB AND GUTTER SEE                                                                                                                                                                        TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAWCUT LINE                                                                                                                                          INSTALL FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE CU-100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DETAIL 2B ON CS-104                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    'R
                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL 2 INDIVIDUAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                      CATCH BASINS. SEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CU-100


                                                                                                                                                                                                           INSTALL 30" CITY CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R3.00' R




                                                                                                                                                                                                         AND GUTTER SEE DETAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST-10 ON CS-101                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL 4' WATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4.00'




                                                                                                                                                                           INTERSECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAY PER DETAIL 04




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                800 EAST
                                                                                                                                                                             12400 SOUTH                                    INSTALL ADA RAMP                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON CS-104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PER CITY DETAIL ST-04 AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST-05 ON SHEET CS-102

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATCH EXISTING CURB AND GUTTER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH EXISTING ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PIONEER ROAD (12400 SOUTH)
                                                                                                                                                                                    S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BENCHMARK INFORMATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THE STREET MONUMENT AT THE INTERSECTION OF 970 E AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12400 S IS THE BENCHMARK FOR THIS PROJECT WITH AN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             01 PLAN VIEW
                                                                                                                    0             10           20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ELEVATION OF 4505.28
                                                                                                                  KNOW WHAT'S BELOW. CALL 811 BEFORE YOU DIG.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE - 1" = 10'
                                                                                                                  DRAWING IS NOT TO SCALE IF LESS THAN 24"x36". DIMENSIONS AND NOTES SUPERCEDE SCALE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THESE PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS ARE THE PROPERTY OF JOHNSON ENGINEERING COMPANY, AND SHALL NOT BE COPIED, REDUCED, OR REPRODUCED WITHOUT THEIR WRITTEN PERMISSION.

                                                                                                                   5          -                     -                                            CLIENT / OWNER INFORMATION:                                                                                                                                       ENGINEER / SURVEYOR INFORMATION:                                                                                   SHEET INFORMATION:                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY:     CHECKED BY:     APPROVED BY: SHEET:

                                                                                                                   4          -                     -                                             ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DBJ           DBJ             DBJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT NO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHRIS SMITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE PLAN                                                                                                                      19-045
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                         6/08/2020
                                                                                                                         5/10/2020
                                                                                                                                            REVISION 02
                                                                                                                                            REVISION 01
                                                                                                                                                                                                  627 ROCKY KNOLL LANE
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JOHNSON ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4436 SOUTH 1025 EAST ● SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84124                                                     DRAPER COVE PHASE II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2020-06-09                                CS-100
                                                                                                                   1     1/30/2020         PRELIMINARY                                            801-554-2551                                                                                                                                                                                                     www.johnsonengineeringinc.com                                                         DRAPER, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH                                                                                          SCALE:

                                                                                                                   NO.      DATE               REVISION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Phone: 801-787-4569                                                                                                                                                                                                1":10'
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                        1                                                                                                           2                                                                 3                                                          4                                                                         5                                                                       6                                                             7                                                        8                                          9                                       10




 A




                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                  ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FENCE. SEE CIVIL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR MORE DETAIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 1 FENCE. CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COORDINATE FENCE CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FENCE. SEE CIVIL PLANS                                                                                                 AT PHASE 2 FENCE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOR MORE DETAIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.    THESE LANDSCAPE PLANS ARE NOT COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS AND SHOULD NOT BE USED AS




                                                                                                                                 ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SUCH. THE PURPOSE OF THESE PLANS IS TO DEMONSTRATE OVERALL DESIGN INTENT TO THE OWNER AND
                                                      ex.w 08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASSIST OWNER IN OBTAINING COMPETITIVE BIDS FOR INSTALLATION OF SAID LANDSCAPING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AREA FOR SNOW REMOVAL AND BUMPER OVERHANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.   ALL BASE AND SITE INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A SURVEY PROVIDED BY OTHERS AND IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AREA FOR SNOW REMOVAL AND BUMPER OVERHANG                                                                                                                                      THEREFORE ASSUMED TO BE ACCURATE. CONTRACTOR SHALL FIELD VERIFY ALL EXISTING AND PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                               < SD 18              < SD 18            < SD 18                                             < SD 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GRADES, PLANT MATERIAL, BUILDINGS, PROPERTY LINES ETC. ON-SITE PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION AND WILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEED TO MAKE ON-SITE ADJUSTMENTS AS NECESSARY DURING CONSTRUCTION. BY USE OF THESE PLANS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE OWNER AND CONTRACTORS AGREE TO HOLD IN-SITE DESIGN GROUP HARMLESS FROM ERRORS IN




                                                                                                                               ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SURVEY PROVIDED.                                                                                                                                427 W. 11950 S., SUITE 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3.   CONTRACTOR AND/OR OWNER IS RESPONSIBLE TO VERIFY CORRECT PROPERTY LINES AND MAKE                                                                  DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                801.335.9900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADJUSTMENTS TO PLAN AS NECESSARY. IN ADDITION, ALL UTILITIES AND/OR EASEMENTS ARE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VERIFIED ON-SITE TO ENSURE NO CONFLICTS EXIST BETWEEN EXISTING UTILITIES, EASEMENTS AND THE                                                      C       GOULD PLUS ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED LANDSCAPE PLAN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            06
 B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4.   THESE DOCUMENTS ARE NOT TO BE USED AS GRADING PLANS. SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR GRADING.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIGHT POLE, TYP. SEE ELECTRICAL
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                              ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5.   IN-SITE DESIGN GROUP (ISDG) AGREES TO AMEND LANDSCAPE DRAWINGS AS NECESSARY AND/OR PROVIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWINGS. CONTRACTOR TO                                                                                                                                                        ON-SITE CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION AT AN ADDITIONAL COST TO BE DETERMINED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COORDINATE FINAL LOCATION WITH                                                                                                                                            6.   ISDG OFFERS NO GUARANTEE, WRITTEN OR OTHERWISE, AS TO THE ACCURACY OF THESE DRAWINGS. THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         www.in-sitedesigngroup.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17 North 470 West American Fork, Utah 84003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OWNER PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION AS                                                                                                                                                 OWNER AND CONTRACTOR ARE ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING LANDSCAPE IS CONSTRUCTED IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ELECTRICAL PLANS MAY DIFFER FROM                                                                                                                                               A SAFE MANNER THAT WILL NOT CAUSE HARM TO ANY PERSON, STRUCTURE OR OTHER ELEMENTS ON THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THIS SITE PLAN.                                                                                                                                                                SAID PROPERTY OR ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7.   CONTRACTOR SHALL INSPECT ALL DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS. ANY DISCREPANCIES FOUND IN THE
                                                                                                                             ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWINGS, DETAILS OR SPECIFICATIONS SHALL BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE OWNER AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN-SITE DESIGN GROUP PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN WRITTEN FIELD DIRECTIVES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FROM IN-SITE DESIGN GROUP STATING PROPER COURSE OF ACTION IF DISCREPANCIES OR ERRORS ARE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROCK MULCH, TYP.                                                                 CONNECTION BETWEEN PHASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DISCOVERED PRIOR TO AND DURING CONSTRUCTION.
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ONE AND PHASE TWO. MAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADJUSTMENTS TO HARDSCAPE,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPE AS NEEDED FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LANDSCAPE NOTES
                                                                                                                          ex.ohp




                    WATER METER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AESTHETIC PURPOSES.
                 (IRRIGATION POC)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROOF DRAIN. SEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.  LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR VERIFYING QUANTITIES OF ALL MATERIALS FOR BIDDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIVIL DRAWINGS, TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                AND INSTALLATION PURPOSES. IF DISCREPANCIES EXIST, THE PLAN SHALL DICTATE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2. PLANT MATERIAL TO BE INSTALLED PER PLANT LEGEND. ANY SUBSTITUTIONS TO BE APPROVED BY OWNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND/OR LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. PLANT STOCK SHALL MEET OR EXCEED THE LATEST ANLA AMERICAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STANDARD FOR NURSERY STOCK STANDARDS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          801.756.5043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3. SHRUBS ADJACENT TO PARKING LOTS IN PERIMETER PLANTINGS SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM HEIGHT OF 18" AT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SD
                                                                                                                         ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THE TIME OF PLANTING.
 C
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4. NEW AUTOMATIC UNDERGROUND IRRIGATION SYSTEM TO BE INSTALLED PRIOR TO LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALLATION TO ENSURE PROPER WATERING OF ALL LANDSCAPE AREAS. REFER TO IRRIGATION PLANS FOR
                                                                                W                                                           W 02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SPECIFICS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5. SANDY LOAM TOPSOIL TO BE INSTALLED AT THE FOLLOWING DEPTHS: 12" IMPORTED SANDY LOAM TOPSOIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IN ALL NEW PLANTER AREAS. PLANT PIT BACKFILL MIX SHALL BE 75% SANDY LOAM TOPSOIL AND 25% SOIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PREP BY MILLER COMPANIES OR APPROVED EQUAL.
                                                                                                                        ex.ohp




                 F                  F                   F                              F                                         F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
                                                                                                                                                    F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6. PLANTER BEDS TO BE EXCAVATED AS NECESSARY IN ORDER TO ALLOW FOR TOPSOIL, AMENDMENTS AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MULCH. FINISHED GRADE OF PLANTER AREAS SHALL BE APPROX. 1" BELOW TOP OF CURB, SIDEWALK, OR
     p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SD
        oh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OTHER PAVED AREA.
     ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7. DEWITT 5 OZ. WEED BARRIER FABRIC TO BE INSTALLED IN ALL ROCK MULCH AREAS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8. ROCK MULCH TO BE 3/4" CRUSHED 'SOUTHTOWN' STONE FROM UTAH LANDSCAPE ROCK IN NEPHI, UTAH.
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9. INSTALL PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE TO THE TOP OF THE FABRIC AFTER INSTALLING PLANTS AND PRIOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INSTALLING MULCH. AFTER INSTALLATION OF THE MULCH THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EVENLY BROADCAST A
                                                                                                                      ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO.    DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECOND APPLICATION OF SLOW-RELEASE PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE. APPLY PRE-EMERGENT HERBICIDE PER
             ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDATIONS.
              ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SD 06 >                                       SD 06 >                           SD 06 >                                       < SD 08                                                                                                      10. IF HIGH WINDS ARE FREQUENT ON SITE, ALL TREES TO BE STAKED AT TIME OF PLANTING. SEE DETAILS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      < SD 08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SPECIFICS. REMOVE STAKING WITHIN FIRST YEAR OR WHEN TREE IS ESTABLISHED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11. SEE ARCHITECT AND CIVIL PLANS FOR ALL BUILDING AND SITE INFORMATION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HARDSCAPE NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRE RISER ROOM
                                                                                                                     ex.ohp
                         p
                          oh




                                                                                                                                                                                    UNIT #1                                                                      LOCATE IRRIGATION CONTROLLER IN
                          ex.




                                                      ex.w 08




 D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MECHANICAL ROOM, COORDINATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.    CONTRACTOR TO APPLY FOR ALL NECESSARY PERMITS AND PAY FOR THE SAME.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 POWER CONNECTION. CONTRACTOR TO
                   800 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2.    CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE ANY DRAWINGS, STRUCTURAL CALCULATIONS OR CUT-SHEETS OF ALL BUILDINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COORDINATE WITH ELECTRICIAN AND
                                                                                                                                                                                     1,668                                                                       OWNER FOR EXACT WALL AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORIENTATION PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND OTHER STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE SAMPLES OF FINISHES FOR PAVING, FENCING, ETC. TO OWNER FOR APPROVAL
                                   p




                                                                                                                    ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
                                       oh
                                    ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4.    ON ALL PERMEABLE AREAS (LANDSCAPE AREAS) THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN POSITIVE DRAINAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UNIT #2                                       UNIT #3                                                                    UNIT #4                                                     UNIT #5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AWAY FROM BUILDINGS, PER CODE FROM THE FOUNDATION. ALL HARDSCAPE SURFACES SHALL DRAIN AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MIN. 1.5% TO MAX. 2% AND SHALL HAVE POSITIVE DRAINAGE AWAY FROM BUILDINGS AND OTHER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STRUCTURES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.    CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE IRRIGATION SLEEVING UNDER ALL SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAY AND/OR FOOTINGS AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,188
                                                  ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,188                                                                      1,188
                                             ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONTRACTOR TO COORDINATE                                                                                                   NEEDED PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF HARDSCAPE ELEMENTS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,218
                                                                                                                 ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONNECTION BETWEEN PHASE
                                               ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.    PATIO FURNITURE TO BE PROVIDED AND INSTALLED BY OWNER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTEGRALCOLORED                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ONE AND PHASE TWO. MAKE                                                                                            7.    CARE SHALL BE TAKEN NOT TO DAMAGE ANY EXISTING LANDSCAPING TO REMAIN OR ANY OTHER ASPECTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE BANDING                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADJUSTMENTS TO HARDSCAPE,                                                                                                  OF THE ADJACENT PROPERTIES. ALL DAMAGE CAUSED AND NECESSARY REPAIRS WILL BE THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE SITE LEGEND.                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANDSCAPE AS NEEDED FOR                                                                                                  RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR WITH NO ADDITIONAL COSTS BEING INCURRED BY THE OWNER.                                                                                ND S C A P E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AESTHETIC PURPOSES.
                                                           p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                 INTEGRAL COLORED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         # 4884514
                                                                    oh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L I C ENS E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CH I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONCRETE. SEE SITE
                                                                ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cory B.
                                                                                                                ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                 LEGEND.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T EC T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Whiting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SITE LEGEND
                                                      ex.w 08




 E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SYMBOL                      DESCRIPTION                                     QTY
                                                                             p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST
                                                                           oh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ATE          A   H
                                    ex.c                   ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF U T
                                                                                ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PER PLAN
                                                                                                               ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SOUTHTOWN CRUSHED GRAVEL MULCH AT 3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEPTH: 3/4" SIZE, SCREENED AND DOUBLE WASHED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NUMBER
                 ex.c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRIOR TO PLACEMENT. INSTALL OVER WEED                                                                                                                                                                         19046
     ex.c               ex.c                ex.c
                                                                                                                                             PLAZA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTROL FABRIC. FROM UTAH LANDSCAPE ROCK,
                                                                                                      p




                                                                         ex.c                              ex.c                               ex.c
                                                                                                    oh
                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                                                             ex.c           ex.c              ex.c            ex.c             ex.c             ex.c           ex.c             ex.c              ex.c             ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEPHI, UTAH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ex.c                ex.c                 ex.c              ex.c              ex.c             ex.c
                                                                                                ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ex.c              ex.c            ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                  STREET CORNER BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ex.ss 04 >




                                                                                                                                                                                    ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DECORATIVE BOULDERS: 2'-4' SIZE                   PER PLAN
ex.ohp                                                                                                                                                                                                 ex.c
                                                      ex.w 08




                        ex.ohp               ex.ohp                             ex.ohp                                                                                                                                 ex.c             ex.c             ex.c           ex.c
                                                                                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                ex.c             ex.c              ex.c                         ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FROM STAKER PARSONS, NORTH SALT LAKE, UTAH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEC T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ex.c                    ex.c              ex.c              ex.c
                                                                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ex.c            ex.c                         ex.c               ex.c
                                                                                                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BROOM FINISH CONCRETE, SEE CIVIL                  PER PLAN                                                         DRAPER COVE
                                                                                                           ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
ex. ngas                ex. ngas               ex. ngas                                 ex. ngas                                             ex. ngas                ex. ngas               ex. ngas               ex. ngas            ex. ngas            ex. ngas             ex. ngas               ex. ngas             ex. ngas                            ex. ngas                ex. ngas                    ex. ngas             ex. ngas              ex. ngas               ex. ngas              ex. ngas                     ex. ngas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PHASE 2 FLEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECORATIVE PAVERS TO MATCH OR                     PER PLAN                                                            OFFICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ex.ss 04 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMPLIMENT BUILDING ARCHITECTURE
                                                      ex.w 08


                                                                            SD 18 >




ex.w
F 12                                ex.w 12
                                                                                                     ex.ohp




                                                                                       ex.w 12                                                          ex.w 12                           ex.w 12                         ex.w 12                        ex.w 12                      ex.w 12                            ex.w 12                                      ex.w 12                              ex.w 12                            ex.w 12                     ex.w 12                            ex.w 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CITY SUBMITTAL - NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12391 SOUTH 800 EAST, DRAPER UTAH 84020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INTEGRAL COLORED CONCRETE. BANDING                PER PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5' WIDE DECORATIVE                                                                                                                                                         TO BE DIFFERENT COLOR THAN MAIN
                                                                                                  ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BENCH, TYP.                                                                                                                                                                FIELD. COLORS TO COMPLIMENT PAVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AND BUILDING..                                                                                                          HARDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DECORATIVE PAVING. EXACT MATERIAL TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ex.ss 04 >
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN
                                                                                      SD 18 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DETERMINED, TYP. TRANSITIONAL SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BETWEEN CONCRETE AND BUILDING ENTRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THRESHOLD ELEVATION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PIONEER ROAD
                                                                                            ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5' WIDE DECORATIVE BENCH,                         6
                 < ex.ss 15                                     < ex.ss 15                                                                 < ex.ss 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVIDED BY OWNER.
                                                                                                                                                                               < ex.ss 15                      < ex.ss 15                       < ex.ss 15                     < ex.ss 15                         < ex.ss 15                                    < ex.ss 15                            < ex.ss 15                          < ex.ss 15                      < ex.ss 15                          < ex.ss 15                                                                                                                                                                                   SITE APPLICATION
                                                      ex.w 08




                                                                                         ex.ohp SD 18 >




        ex.irr                   ex.irr                ex.irr                        ex.irr                                             ex.irr                      ex.irr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAY 11TH, 2020
      ex.sd                   ex.sd                ex.sd                                                                                                                                ex.irr            ex.irr              ex.irr            ex.irr             ex.irr
 G                                                                               ex.sd                                             ex.sd                    ex.sd               ex.sd                                                                                                 ex.irr             ex.irr              ex.irr                         ex.irr                   ex.irr                ex.irr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10'           0            10'          20'          40'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE: 1"=10'-0" ON 24X36 SHEET                                                                         LS1.0
                             1                                                                                                               2                                                                  3                                                            4                                                                          5                                                                  6                                                           7                                                          8                         9                                        10




                                                                                                                                 ex.ohp
                                                  ex.w 08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LANDSCAPE TABULATION                                                                                                                                                                                 *                                     *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1. SITE AREA = 18,732 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2. 15% SITE LANDSCAPE REQUIRED = 2,810 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3. 2,759 SF (14.7%) SITE LANDSCAPE PROVIDED. OK PER JEN JASTREMSKY 05-08-20




                                                                                                                              ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4. PARKING LOT AREA = 7,611 SF
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5. 10% PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE REQUIRED = 761 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6. 862 SF (11.3%) PARKING LOT LANDSCAPE PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7. ONE TREE PER 400 SF OF SITE LANDSCAPE REQUIRED = 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8. 17 TREES PROVIDED. ADDITIONAL TREES PROVIDED TO ACCOUNT FOR EXISTING TREES REMOVED FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THE SITE.




                                                  ex.w 08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLUMNAR TREE, TYP.




                                                                                                                             ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FENCE. SEE CIVIL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOR MORE DETAIL.                                                                                                                                                        PHASE 1 FENCE. CONTRACTOR TO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FENCE. SEE CIVIL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COORDINATE FENCE CONNECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AT PHASE 2 FENCE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECIDUOUS TREE LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FOR MORE DETAIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SYMBOL   BOTANICAL NAME/COMMON NAME               SIZE              QTY




                                                                                                                            ex.ohp
                                                  ex.w 08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AREA FOR SNOW REMOVAL AND BUMPER OVERHANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACER PLATANOIDES 'CRIMSON SENTRY`        2" CAL              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AREA FOR SNOW REMOVAL AND BUMPER OVERHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                               < SD 18              < SD 18            < SD 18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CRIMSON SENTRY NORWAY MAPLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              < SD 18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       427 W. 11950 S., SUITE 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   801.335.9900




                                                                                                                          ex.ohp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C       GOULD PLUS ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2020


B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           www.in-sitedesigngroup.com
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17 North 470 West American Fork, Utah 84003
                                                                                                                         ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MALUS 'SPRING SNOW'                      2" CAL                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPRING SNOW CRABAPPLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MEDIUM SHADE
                                                                                                                        ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROTECT PHASE ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TREE, TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE. REPAIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AS NEEDED AT NO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ADDITIONAL COST
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING                                              TO OWNER, TYP.
                                                                                                                     ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EVERGREEN TREE LEGEND
                WATER METER                                                                                                                                                                      NARROW EVERGREEN
             (IRRIGATION POC)                                                                                                                                                                    TREE, TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            801.756.5043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROCK MULCH, TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SYMBOL   BOTANICAL NAME/COMMON NAME               SIZE              QTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              >
C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICEA ABIES 'CUPRESSINA`                 7' TALL              1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COLUMNAR NORWAY SPRUCE
                                                                                                                    ex.ohp
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                           W                                                              W 02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICEA GLAUCA PENDULA MORTON'S TOWER'     7' TALL              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WEEPING WHITE SPRUCE
                                                                                                                   ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DECIDUOUS SHRUB LEGEND
             F                   F                  F                             F                                         F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6>
                                                                                                                                                    F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SYMBOL   BOTANICAL NAME/COMMON NAME               SIZE              QTY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BERBERIS THUNBERGII ATRO 'CONCORD'       5 GAL             12                                                        NO.    DESCRIPTION
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DARK RED-PURPLE BARBERRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                 ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CORNUS SERICEA `KELSEYI`                 5 GAL             3
       ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KELSEYI DOGWOOD
         ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD 06 >                                     SD 06 >                           SD 06 >                                 < SD 08                          < SD 08                                                                                     HIBISCUS SYRIACUS 'GANDINI SANTIAGO'     5 GAL             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PURPLE PILLAR COLUMNAR ROSE OF SHARON

D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIRE RISER ROOM
                                                                                                                ex.ohp
                     hp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RHUS AROMATICA `GRO-LOW`                 5 GAL             13
                         o




                                                                                                                                                                                    UNIT #1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GRO-LOW FRAGRANT SUMAC
                      ex.




                                                  ex.w 08
              800 EAST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIBES ALPINUM 'GREENMOUND'               5 GAL             2
                                                                                                                                                                                     1,668                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GREENMOUND ALPINE CURRANT
                                 p




                                                                                                               ex.ohp
                                 oh
                                 ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROSA MEIDILAND SERIES                    5 GAL             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UNIT #2                                         UNIT #3                                                                    UNIT #4                                             UNIT #5                                                                                                                      RED MEIDILAND ROSE (3' TALL AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MATURITY MAX.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,188
                                               ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,188                                                                      1,188
                                         ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SPIRAEA JAPONICA `MAGIC CARPET`          5 GAL             34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,218
                                                                                                            ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAGIC CARPET SPIREA                                                                                                                                ND S C A P E
                                           ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EVERGREEN SHRUB LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # 4884514




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L I C ENS E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SYMBOL   BOTANICAL NAME/COMMON NAME               SIZE              QTY                                                                                 Cory B.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T EC T
                                                       p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Whiting
                                                               oh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUXUS 'GREEN MOUNTAIN'                   5 GAL             6
                                                            ex.




                                                                                                           ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WINTER GEM BOXWOOD
E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ATE          A   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BUXUS 'MONRUE PP15243 GREEN TOWER`       5 GAL             5                                                                                            OF U T
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MONRUE BOXWOOD
                                                                      p
                                                                       oh




                                 ex.c                  ex.c
                                                                           ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER                                                                              19046
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PERENNIAL & GRASS LEGEND
                                                                                                          ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SYMBOL   BOTANICAL NAME/COMMON NAME               SIZE              QTY
             ex.c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STREET CORNER BUILDING
                    ex.c                ex.c
                                                                                           ohp




                                                                    ex.c                              ex.c                                   ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HEMEROCALLIS X `ROSY RETURNS`            1 GAL             153
                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                             ex.c           ex.c              ex.c             ex.c             ex.c             ex.c            ex.c              ex.c              ex.c             ex.c                          ex.c               ex.c               ex.c             ex.c           ex.c              ex.c                                                                                               ROSY RETURNS DAYLILY
                                                                                              ex.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ex.c              ex.c            ex.c                        ex.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ex.ss 04 >




                                                                                                                                                                                    ex.c               ex.c                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HEUCHERA X 'GEORGIA PEACH`               1 GAL             41
                                                  ex.w 08




                    ex.ohp               ex.ohp                            ex.ohp                                                                                                                                       ex.c             ex.c             ex.c           ex.c
                                                                                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                  ex.c              ex.c
                                                                                             T
                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ex.c                         ex.c              ex.c                 ex.c             ex.c           ex.c              ex.c            ex.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T         ex.c                ex.c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GEORGIA PEACH CORAL BELLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAPER COVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IRIS PALLIDIA 'VARIEGATA'                1 GAL             17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VARIEGATED SWEET IRIS                                                                                                 PHASE 2 FLEX
                                                                                                      ex.ohp




                    ex. ngas               ex. ngas                                ex. ngas                                                ex. ngas                  ex. ngas               ex. ngas                ex. ngas            ex. ngas            ex. ngas              ex. ngas                ex. ngas             ex. ngas                            ex. ngas              ex. ngas                  ex. ngas         ex. ngas                ex. ngas                ex. ngas             ex. ngas                      ex. ngas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CALAMAGROSTIS ACUTIFLORA 'KARL FOERSTER' 1 GAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KARL FOERSTER FEATHER REED GRASS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OFFICE
F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ex.ss 04 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CITY SUBMITTAL - NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12391 SOUTH 800 EAST, DRAPER UTAH 84020
                                                                       SD 18 >




                                 ex.w 12
                                                                                                ex.ohp




                                                                                  ex.w 12                                                           ex.w 12                               ex.w 12                         ex.w 12                         ex.w 12                       ex.w 12                             ex.w 12                                     ex.w 12                            ex.w 12                        ex.w 12                       ex.w 12                           ex.w 12



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROTECT PHASE ONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PLAN
                                                                                             ex.ohp




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LANDSCAPE. REPAIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIRE HYDRANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AS NEEDED AT NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ex.ss 04 >




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ADDITIONAL COST
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                                                              SITE VISIBILITY TRIANGLE NO PLANTS TALLER THAN 30". TREE
                                                                                 SD 18 >




                                                                                                                              BRANCHES TO BE LIMBED UP PER CITY CODE, TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TO OWNER, TYP.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIONEER ROAD
                                                                                       ex.ohp




             < ex.ss 15                                     < ex.ss 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE APPLICATION
                                                                                                                                       < ex.ss 15                              < ex.ss 15                      < ex.ss 15                        < ex.ss 15                      < ex.ss 15                          < ex.ss 15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 11TH, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   < ex.ss 15                          < ex.ss 15                       < ex.ss 15
G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      < ex.ss 15                          < ex.ss 15
                                                  ex.w 08




                                                                                    ex.ohp SD 18 >




    ex.irr                  ex.irr                 ex.irr                       ex.irr                                             ex.irr                           ex.irr              ex.irr                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10'            0           10'           20'                    40'
                         ex.sd                 ex.sd                        ex.sd                                             ex.sd                                                                        ex.irr              ex.irr            ex.irr             ex.irr              ex.irr              ex.irr              ex.irr
                                                                                                                                                            ex.sd               ex.sd              ex.sd              ex.sd             ex.sd                                                                                                                 ex.irr                   ex.irr              ex.irr              ex.irr            ex.irr             ex.irr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ex.sd              ex.sd               ex.sd            ex.sd                                                                                                                                                                 ex.irr              ex.irr                      ex.irr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ex.sd                        ex.sd                   ex.sd              ex.sd              ex.sd

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LS1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ex.sd             ex.sd               ex.sd              ex.sd                       ex.sd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: 1"=10'-0" ON 24X36 SHEET
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                       1                                          2                                     3                                                  4                                               5                                             6                                              7                                                    8                                                              9                                              10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                    A                          A.5                                  B                                             C             A401                                D                                                         E                                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A300                                                                                                                                                                           T.O. ACCENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A401
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WALL
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    130' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     128' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E.I.F.S. CORNICE MOLDING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARRISTONE HEADER
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3050     3050       3050                         3050     3050       3050                           3050       3050           3050
                                                                                                                                                                     3050         3050                                                                                                                                                                                            3050           3050          3050                     ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SMOOTH BAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        METAL ROOF AWNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Second Floor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAINTED FIBER CEMENT                             PAINTED FIBER CEMENT                               PAINTED FIBER CEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRIM AND CORBEL                                  TRIM AND CORBEL                                    TRIM AND CORBEL                                                                                                               115' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                   W-4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLACK ALUMINUM CUSTOM AWNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W-7           W-4           W-7                      PAINTED FIBER CEMENT TRIM
                                                                                                                                          W-3             W-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STOREFRONT WINDOW                                          427 WEST 11950 SOUTH, SUITE #201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK                                           DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                            W-1                                W-5                 W-5                          W-5                 W-5                            W-5                       W-5                                                                                                                                                             801.335.9900
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ARRISTONE GARNET BULLNOSE
                                                                                                                                          W-2             W-2                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W-6                         W-6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ARRISTONE GARNET ROCK STONE                                  ©    GOULD PLUS ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   First Floor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T.O. FOOTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       98' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOUTH ELEVATON (STREET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1       SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"


                        GENERAL NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1

     1. MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT WILL BE SCREENED FROM THE STREET                                                                       F                                                               E                                             D                                 A400            C                                                         B                                     A.5                            A
     WITH PARAPET WALL OR A SEPERATE SCREEN. WILL VERIFY NEEDS
C    WITH BUILIDNG PERMIT PROCESS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
     2. SEE SHEET A600 FOR DOOR AND WINDOW SCHEDULE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A400

                                                                                                 E.I.F.S. CORNICE MOLDING                                 OVERFLOW ROOF SCUPPER                                 ROOF SCUPPER AND DOWN SPOUT                     OVERFLOW ROOF SCUPPER                               ROOF SCUPPER AND DOWN SPOUT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          128' - 0"
                                                                                                 ARRISTONE HEADER, TYP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E.I.F.S. CORNICE MOLDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK
                                                                                                             VYNIL WINDOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARRISTONE HEADER TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No.              Description                     Date
                                                                                                        ARRISTONE GARNET                           3050    3050      3050         3050   3050           3050     3050   3050   3050       3050           3050     3050   3050     3050     3050             3050     3050      3050      3050       3050                   4050          4050           4050           4050                              VYNIL WINDOW
                                                                                                             SMOOTH BAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         METAL ROOF AWNING
               MATERIAL CALCULATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Second Floor
                                                                                       ARRISTONE GARNET SMOOTH HEADER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      115' - 0"
    STREET FACADE
    TRANSPARENCY (GLAZING) PERCENTAGE OF FIRST LEVEL:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLACK ALUMINUM CUSTOM AWNING
D         FIRST LEVEL OF 12' CEILING * 139' LENGTH = 1,668 SF OF FACADE                                GLASS GARAGE DOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARRISTONE HEADER TYP.
          DOORS AND WINDOWS: 856 SF = 51.3%
                                                                                                     OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIRE                                                                         VYNIL WINDOW
    FACADE AREA TOTAL: 3,892 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RISER                                                                         OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK
                                                                                             ARRISTONE GARNET BULLNOSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ACCESS         4070           4070           4070
           DOORS & WINDOWS OF FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL: 1,066 SF = 27.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARRISTONE GARNET BULLNOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOOR
                                                                                           ARRISTONE GARNET ROCK STONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARRISTONE GARNET ROCK STONE
    FACADE AREA MINUS DOORS & WINDOWS = 2,916 SF
                                                                                           FOOTING AND FOUNDATION WALL,
                                                                                              SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          First Floor
           PRIMARY MATERIAL
           BRICK / ARRISCRAFT: 2,342 SF = 80.3%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. FOOTING
           SECONDARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 98' - 0"
           E.I.F.S. CORNICE: 150 SF = 5.1%
           WHITE CEDAR WINDOW TRIM = 426 SF = 14.6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NORTH ELEVATION (REAR)
    REAR FACADE
    TRANSPARENCY (GLAZING) PERCENTAGE OF FIRST LEVEL:                                                                                                                                                                                      2       SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADAM
          FIRST LEVEL OF 12' CEILING * 139' LENGTH = 1,668 SF OF FACADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENGLAND
          DOORS AND WINDOWS: 850 SF = 50.9%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ORME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               No. 8354079-0301
    FACADE AREA TOTAL: 3,892 SF
E                                                                                                                                                   1
           DOORS & WINDOWS OF FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL: 1,180 SF = 30.3%
                                                                                                                                                   A402                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3                                                                                                                            02.01.20
    FACADE AREA MINUS DOORS & WINDOWS = 2,712 SF
                                                                                                 4      3                     2.7                                                               2                              1                                                                             1                                      2                                               A402
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.7                      34                                                                O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NUMBER                                    19046
           PRIMARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                          1
           BRICK / ARRISCRAFT: 2,570 SF = 94.7%                                                                                                    A300
                                                                                                                                                                ALUMINUM ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. ACCENT
           SECONDARY MATERIAL                                                   T.O. ACCENT                                                                     ACCESS LADDER AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
           E.I.F.S. CORNICE: 142 SF = 3.2%                                               WALL                                                                   CAGE, SEE A402                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A300
                                                                                130' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       130' - 0"
    EAST FACADE
                                                                                TOP OF WALL
                                                                                128' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOP OF WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                128' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAVER COVE
    TRANSPARENCY (GLAZING) PERCENTAGE OF FIRST LEVEL:
          FIRST LEVEL OF 12' CEILING * 62' FEET WIDTH = 744 SF OF FACADE
          DOORS AND WINDOWS: 187 SF = 25%                                                                                                                                                                                                   E.I.F.S. CORNICE MOLDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E.I.F.S. CORNICE MOLDING                                                                                                                                                                                             PHASE 2 FLEX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARRISTONE GARNET
    FACADE AREA TOTAL: 1,736 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOLDIER BRICK HEADER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VYNIL WINDOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEADER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VYNIL WINDOW                                3050         3050     3050         3050      3050         3050          3050         3050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OFFICES
                                                                                                                      4050         4050                    4050        4050
           DOORS & WINDOWS OF FIRST AND SECOND LEVELS: 267 SF = 15.3%      SEE A640 SHEETS FOR
                                                                                AWNING DETAILS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARRISTONE GARNET                                                                                                                                                                                               STREET CORNER BUILDING
    FACADE AREA MINUS DOORS & WINDOWS = 1,469 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SMOOTH BAND
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SMOOTH BAND
                                                                                Second Floor                                                                                                                                                                                      BLACK ALUMINUM                                                                                                                                                                           Second Floor
           PRIMARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SOLDIER BRICK HEADER                  CUSTOM AWNING
                                                                                115' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      115' - 0"             12391 SOUTH 800 EAST, DRAPER UTAH 84020
           BRICK / ARRISCRAFT: 1,406 SF = 95.8%                                                                                                                                                                                             VYNIL WINDOW                  PAINTED FIBER CEMENT
           SECONDARY MATERIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARRISTONE HEADER                                                                                                                                                                            W-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STOREFRONT WINDOW
           E.I.F.S. CORNICE: 63 SF = 4.2%                                                                                                                                                                                                   STOREFRONT DOOR AND                                                                                                                                                                   W-3          W-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WINDOW
    WEST FACADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OLD VIRGINA KING BRICK
    TRANSPARENCY (GLAZING) PERCENTAGE OF FIRST LEVEL:
          FIRST LEVEL OF 12' CEILING * 48' FEET WIDTH = 576 SF OF FACADE
          DOORS AND WINDOWS: 296 SF = 51.4%
                                                                                                                      4070         4070                     4070       4070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BULLNOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BULLNOSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W-1                   W-1                    W-1                        W-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W-2          W-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXTERIOR
    FACADE AREA TOTAL: 1,344 SF
                                                                                First Floor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARRISTONE GARNET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROCK STONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROCK STONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              First Floor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATIONS
           DOORS & WINDOWS OF FIRST AND SECOND LEVELS: 416 SF = 31%             100' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100' - 0"
                                                                                T.O. FOOTING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. FOOTING
    FACADE AREA MINUS DOORS & WINDOWS = 928 SF                                  98' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          98' - 0"
           PRIMARY MATERIAL
           BRICK / ARRISCRAFT: 743 SF = 80.1%                                                                                EAST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                               WEST ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                 SITE APPLICATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100% REVIEW SET

G          SECONDARY MATERIAL
                                                                                                                 3           SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                              4           SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAY04.20.2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11TH, 2020
           E.I.F.S. CORNICE: 49 SF = 5.1%
           WHITE CEDAR WOOD WINDOW TRIM: 137 SF = 14.8%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A200
    1            2              3              4            5   6       7              8               9       10




A




                                                                                                                          427 WEST 11950 SOUTH, SUITE #201
                                                                                                                                DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                    801.335.9900
B
                                                                                                                            ©    GOULD PLUS ARCHITECTS, LLC - 2020




C




        BIRDS EYE VIEW OF DRAPER COVE PHASE 1 AND PHASE 2                   PIONEER ROAD PERSPECTIVE
                                                                                                                    No.              Description                     Date




D




                                                                                                                                        ADAM
                                                                                                                                       ENGLAND
                                                                                                                                        ORME
                                                                                                                                      No. 8354079-0301

E
                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                            02.01.20

                                                                                                                    PROJECT NUMBER                                    19046




                                                                                                                     DRAVER COVE
                                                                                                                     PHASE 2 FLEX
                                                                                                                       OFFICES
                                                                                                                      STREET CORNER BUILDING
F
                                                                                                                            12391 SOUTH 800 EAST, DRAPER UTAH 84020




                                                                                                                      PERSPECTIVE
                                                                                                                      RENDERINGS


                                                                                                                                SITE APPLICATION
                                                                                                                                   SITE PERMIT

G
         PIONEER ROAD AND 800 EAST CORNER PERSPECTIVE               NORTH SIDE OF PROJECT (REAR) PERSPECTIVE                     MAY02.01.2020
                                                                                                                                      11TH, 2020




                                                                                                                            A210
    EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUEST
To whom it may concern,

This letter is written because I, the owner of the project and the design team is asking for a deviation to
DCMC Section 9-11-090(D)(1)(h)(3). We are asking for this deviation because there will be a financial
impact, if we are required to building a fence per the DCMC requirements. The owners to the north of
my project is Michael and Earline Chandler. Below are a few reasons below why we feel we should be
awarded this deviation.

Reason (1): As you can see on the civil drawings, the Chandler home was actually built onto my client’s
property. The Chandler home is new enough that city setbacks would have been enforced before this
home was built. If we have to build a new masonry fence, we would have to move the new fence to
the south by 2’ so we don’t undermine the foundation of the existing home. This will require the
landscape buffer between the property line and the parking lot to shift, which would require the parking
lot to shift. The only area on the project site that can give up the additional 2 feet would have to be the
building itself. Making the building smaller by 2 feet reduced my monthly income from rent and
creating the financial impact.

Reason (2): If you would look at the civil drawings, it points out the west side of the Chandler home has
an existing brick fence that is 3’ tall. The civil drawing also points out the east side of the Chandler home
has an existing 6’ masonry fence that extends about halfway to the east. The fence then transition to a
dilapidated wood/chain-link fence the remaining distance until the east property line. We are
proposing to keep the existing condition of 3’ high brick fence, then south wall of home, then 6’ high
masonry fence, and remove the dilapidated wood/chain-link fence. We have in the drawings to
replace the dilapidated fence with a 6’ high precast concrete fence, which will match what was recently
built for Draper Cove Phase 1. We are also recommending to increase our vegetation plants by double
the amount we originally showed in the first round of the site plan application. The intent with the
vegetation, would to provide a plant screen to the hodgepodge of a fence line on the north property
line.

Reason (3): The city should be aware that Draper Cove Phase 1 has purchased the property 12359s 800e
which is the property just north of the Chandler home. Draper Cove Phase 1 will be removing the
existing home on 12359s 800e and building a parking lot for the building of Phase 1. It is my
understanding that the Chandler property could someday become part of Draper Cove Phase 3, which at
that time would not require a masonry fence. The city should have received a future site layout
showing the Chandler’s home being removed and having an office/flex building built. I have also been
told by the Chandler’s they have a “First Right of Refusal Contract” with the developer of Draper Cove
Phase 1.

My design team and myself understand the reason for DCMC Section 9-11-090(D)(1)(h)(3), and how it
would help make good neighbors between a residential and commercial site. We feel that this
particular situation would award us the deviation from the DCMC section.
