Draft Minutes
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT: Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Traci Gundersen, Kent
Player, Mary Squire, John Van Hoff, and Alternate Commissioner Lisa Fowler

ABSENT: Alternate Commissioners DeLaina Tonks and Gary Ogden

STAFF PRESENT: Mike Barker, Spencer DuShane, Christina Oliver, Jennifer Jastremsky, Jake
Sorensen, Amie Salazar and Brien Maxfield

ALSO, PRESENT: Roll on File

Business Meeting:

Chairperson Adams welcomed everyone in attendance and called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.

1.     Action Item: Election for the 2020 Chairperson and Vice Chairperson

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to nominate Andrew Adams as chair for the
upcoming year.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Gundersen, Player, Squire, and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Player motioned to nominate Craig Hawker as Vice Chairperson for
the upcoming year.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Gundersen, Player, Squire, and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for December 19, 2019,
       January 9, and January 23, 2020 (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Player moved to accept the minutes as recorded for all three dates

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Gundersen, Player, Squire, and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020
Page 2
3.     Public Hearing: Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement Request
       (Legislative Action)

A request by Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner, for a Development
Agreement modifying the Title 9 design standards on 0.70 acres of property located at 1462 East
Draper      Parkway.     Staff     contact    is     Jennifer    Jastremsky,     801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, introduced the agreement request. She then reviewed the
Planning Commission’s previous recommendation for denial and conditions made on January 23,
2020. Ms. Jastremsky provided more information on the site plan, elevations, parking, signage,
and lighting. She then reviewed the deviations that were being requested.

Commissioner Van Hoff commented that he felt some of the deviation requests were substantial.

Commissioner Player noted that many of the deviations are related to the context of the building
and that he can accept the deviations to change a bank building to an ice cream shop.

Ms. Oliver clarified they were going to tear the existing building down and rebuild.

Steve Nielsen, Applicant, shared a brief history of his experience purchasing the building and
difficulties they faced trying to convert the bank into a frozen custard shop and the decision process
to tear down the existing building and build their own diner. He then shared some of the plan
details for their proposed diner including the large landscape and grass areas which he feels will
attract people to the location. He also commented that their plan for one tube of neon lights were
not any brighter than LED lights.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item. No comments were
made, and the public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Player noted there were currently several older buildings with neon lights in Draper.

Ms. Jastremsky commented that there may have been a time when neon was allowed in the code.

Chairperson Adams noted that while they want to respect the character of the brand, they also want
things to meet code. He then proceeded to point out adjustments that companies have had to make
in order to meet Draper’s code.

Mike Barker, City Attorney, pointed out one of the reasons a public hearing was required was that
some of the deviations were not allowed and would require a text amendment.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if a traffic analysis of the project had been provided and if they are
required to do so.




                                                  2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020
Page 3
Brien Maxfield, City Engineer, explained that they are not required to do so and the analysis
showed that Draper Parkway would not be impacted by a high volume of traffic in and out of the
site.

Ms. Jastremsky noted that they meet parking requirements and if they had to take out a couple
spots with the requested shared parking deviation they would still comply since there is a shared
parking agreement with the surrounding businesses.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified for Commissioner Van Hoff what signs were considered as wall signs
and which were awning signs.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a negative recommendation to City
Council for the development agreement as requested by Steve Nielsen representing Nielsen’s
Frozen Custard and Diner from Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement,
Application DA-704-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated January 14,
2020.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Gundersen, Squire, and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”. Commissioner
Player voted, “Nay”.

4.     Public Hearing: Draper City General Plan CR Text Amendment Request (Legislative
       Action)

A request by Draper City for a text amendment to the General Plan in order to add the Regional
Commercial land use designation into the written plan document. The scope of this request is City
wide. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Ms. Jastremsky provided an overview of the staff report on the amendment request. She stated that
the Regional Commercial land use designation was erroneously left out of the General Plan update
that was completed late last year. The designation was included on the Land Use Map. The
proposed amendment will bring the designation into the written document.

Chairperson Adams opened the public hearing for this Item. No comments were made, and the
public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Draper City General Plan CR Text Amendment as requested by Draper City,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February
3, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Gundersen




                                               3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020
Page 4
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Gundersen, Player, Squire, and Van Hoff voted, “Aye”.

Ms. Jastremsky informed the Commission that their next meeting would be held February 27,
2019. She asked who would be present since several people may be absent due to the Utah APA
Conference. It was determined that they would most likely have at least three people present to
form a quorum for the Planning Commission meeting that day.

5.     Adjournment: Chairperson Adams moved to adjourn the meeting. A voice vote was
       taken with all in favor and the meeting adjourned at 7:25 p.m.




                                              4
