NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, December 15, 2020, at 5:30 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2020-25  Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
Governor Herbert and the Utah Department of Health have recently issued updated orders in response to record numbers of COVID-19 cases and COVID-19-related hospitalizations.   The orders implement statewide what has been termed a “mask mandate” and have severely limited social gatherings in an attempt “to prevent and control the rapidly changing consequences of COVID-19 throughout the state.”
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with applicable health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website -  https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us . These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request and include your name, address and the phone number which you will be calling from, for the Zoom meeting ID to  public.comment@draper.ut.us .
a STUDY SESSION 1. Legislative Update: Representative Brady Brammer a 2. Presentation: Moderate Income Housing Plan Report - Christina Oliver a 3. Update: Draper Deals - Britnee Johnston a 4. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 5. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 3. Consent Items a. Approval of Resolution #20-55, adopting Section 10350 - Distracted Driving, of the Personnel Policy Manual Staff: Hazel Dunsmore b. Approval of Agreement #20-179, Assessment-in-Lieu for McMillan Subdivision Staff: Brien Maxfield c. Approval of Agreement #20-180, Assessment-in-Lieu for Montague Residence Staff: Brien Maxfield 4. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1470, vacating the right-of-way of Wheatfield Way and Wheatfield Circle located within the Greenfield Farms Subdivision (Legislative Action) Staff report by Scott Cooley. a 5. Public Hearing: Resolution #20-56, approving the 2020 Water Conservation Plan Update (Administrative Action) Staff report by Brien Maxfield a 6. Action Item: Resolution #20-57, adopting the Active Transportation Plan (Administrative Action) Staff report by Eric Lundell a 7. Action Item: Approval of Resolution #20-58, appointing the 2021 Mayor Pro Tempore (Administrative Action) a 8. Action Item: Approval of Resolution #20-59, approving the 2021 Council Assignment List (Administrative Action) a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held December 15, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: December 11, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.