                                           Development Review Committee
                                               1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                 Draper, UT 84020
                                                       November 25, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: December 10, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Chandler Pointe at South Mountain – Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit
          Request
          Application No.:   SPR-1083-2020 and USE-1098-2020
          Applicant:         Mary O’Donnell, representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain
          Project Location:  approximately 14874 South Quarry Pointe Ln
          Current Zoning:    RM2 (Multi-family Residential, up to 12 dwelling units per acre maximum)
                             Zone
          Acreage:           0.014 Acres (approximately 614 ft2)
          Request:           Request for approval of an amended site plan and conditional use permit for
                             the purpose of installing an emergency access gate at the east entrance into
                             the Chandler Pointe at South Mountain development.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of an amended site plan and conditional use permit for
approximately 614 square feet located at the east entrance to Chandler Pointe at South Mountain
(Chandler Pointe) development, at approximately 14874 South Quarry Pointe Ln (Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned RM2. The applicant is requesting that an amended site plan and conditional
use permit be approved to allow for the installation of an emergency access gate.

The property was originally Lot 2 of the South Pointe Commerce Center, which includes multi-family
development and commercial uses. This subdivision was created in 2002 in order to divide the property
into the different development area types. The Chandler Pointe townhome development was approved in
2003 as a 196 unit townhome development. The development has two entrance points (Exhibit C). The
main entrance is on the west side of the development at the roundabout at 65 East and Chandlerpoint
Way. A secondary emergency access was provided on the east side of the development at Chandlerpoint
Way and Draper Pointe Way. When Chandler Pointe was originally developed, this secondary emergency
access was a stub road that did not connect to another road, but was planned for eventual connection to
Traverse Ridge Road. With the completion of The Seasons at Southpointe (Seasons) apartments and their
roadway Draper Pointe Way, that connection has been provided. Both Chandlerpoint Way and Draper
Pointe Way are private roadways, owned by different entities. The Homeowners Association for Chandler
Pointe is requesting permission to place a gate at their east entrance point in order to limit traffic on their




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                              App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request           1
private roadway system from surrounding development.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential High Density
land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RM2 zoning classification, supporting up to 12 unit per acre (Exhibit
E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RM2 zone is
to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at relatively high
densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding land uses.” The RM2
zone abuts on the west, the OS (Open Space) zone abuts on the south, and the CR (Regional Commercial)
zone abuts on the east and north.

Conditional Use. In order to gate a residential subdivision, a conditional use permit is required per
DCMC Section 9-27-200(C). The applicant is requesting to partially gate the development, with a gate at
their east entrance. The western entrance to the neighborhood would remain ungated.

          DCMC 9-27-200(C):
          C. Subdivisions: Subdivisions, whether commercial or residential, may be permitted to include
             gates when approved as a conditional use in accordance with the provisions set forth in
             section 9-5-080 of this title regarding conditional use permits, and when the applicant can
             demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that:



Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                           App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request   2
               1. The gates will not block or impede vehicular or pedestrian transportation on any public
               street inside or outside of the subdivision. Gates shall not be permitted across any public
               street;
               2. Pedestrian access into the subdivision will not be impeded;
               3. No constructed or city desired trail or public transportation feature will be affected by the
               installation of gates;
               4. The implementation of gates for the development does not adversely affect or inhibit the
               connectivity of the city's public transportation system;
               5. The gating of the development will not impose added pressure upon any right of way
               identified within the Draper City master transportation plan beyond that which would be
               reasonably anticipated if the development was not gated.
               6. A homeowners' association adequately established to address the fiscal needs of
               operation and maintenance of the development's gates and streets, is or will be formed that
               will be responsible for any liability, maintenance, repairs, and all other responsibility
               associated with the implementation of the gates for the duration of time that the gates are
               present. Should the homeowners' association be found, at any Pointe in time, to be unable,
               unwilling, or derelict in the operation and/or maintenance of the streets or gates of the
               development, the gates shall be removed or left in an open position, as determined by the
               planning commission through the revocation of any and all conditional use permit(s)
               pertaining to the gates; and
               7. All gate development standards, as outlined in subsection D of this section, can and will
               be met.

The Planning Commission must find that the applicant can demonstrate to their satisfaction all of the
items listed within DCMC Section 9-27-200(C) prior to approving a conditional use permit for a gate.
Staff has reviewed the application against the findings and has found the gate to be in compliance with all
but number of 7 of the required findings. Number 7 states the gate shall meet the development standards
within subsection D of the section. However, subsection D is for a gated community with gates at all
entrances. Chandler Pointe is developing under subsection E, which allows for emergency access gates.
The proposed gate complies with subsection E.

Site Plan Layout. The site plan shows a 25-foot wide gate to be installed 8-feet in from the east property
line (Exhibit F). The gate will be located on the existing 27-foot wide private Chandlerpointe Way road.
The gate hinges in towards Chandlerpointe Way and does not inhibit any traffic on the adjacent Seasons
property. The gate will be 6-feet tall and be of ornamental steel (Exhibit G). The applicant is also
proposing a 6-foot tall vinyl fence to be installed along the east property line as part of this project. No
approvals from the Planning Commission are required for the vinyl fence. Lighting of the gate has not
been provided, but there is a street light located at the intersection with the Seasons development which
should provide sufficient light to notify drivers of the gate’s presence. There is currently no pedestrian
access built along the emergency access entrance into Chandler Pointe. The applicant is not proposing to
install pedestrian access, as the Seasons is a private street network. If a sidewalk were existing, DCMC
would prohibit the gating of the pedestrian access point. The Fire Marshal has reviewed the proposed gate
and determined that it complies with the International Fire Code for ingress and egress of safety
personnel, including the provisions of automatic operators and a knox box. The standards for an
emergency access gate are listed below.

          DCMC 9-27-200(E):
          E. Emergency Access Gate Standards: Gates at emergency access entrances shall comply with
             the following standards:




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                               App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request    3
               1. All roadways at gated emergency access entrances shall have a minimum unobstructed
               width of twenty feet (20') that shall extend at least thirty feet (30') on either side of the gate.
               All other portions of the roadways shall comply with this Code.
               2. Gates shall be designed so that they do not cross into the public right-of-way or adjacent
               traffic lanes outside the subdivision.
               3. Hinged gates shall swing toward the interior of the benefited subdivision. If more than
               one subdivision is benefitted by a gate, then Draper City shall have the authority to determine
               the direction of the gate's swing.
               4. Locking devices used with emergency access gates shall be reviewed and approved by the
               Draper City Fire and Police Departments.
               5. Electric gates must operate in a fail-safe mode so that the gates unlock and can be
               operated manually when electrical service is interrupted. Gates shall be constructed to allow
               manual operation by one person.
               6. All gates shall be equipped with a siren operated sensor, optical emergency strobe system,
               or other system that is approved by, and at the choice of, the Draper City Fire and Police
               Departments to allow access and egress to the subdivision for emergency personnel without
               causing a delay in response time. Any such system which requires "line of sight" operation
               shall be installed in such a location and manner as approved by the Draper City Fire and
               Police Departments. All such access and egress points shall have a universal lock box
               installed as a backup mechanism in place which can be operated by one person and is
               acceptable to and chosen by the Draper City Fire and Police Departments for the event of
               failure of the primary system.
               7. Pedestrian ingress/egress shall not be impeded and pedestrian access shall be maintained
               through the gated area to meet the requirements of the Building Code.
               8. Lighting, as determined by Draper City, shall be required at all gated emergency access
               entrances for safety.
               9. The homeowners' association(s) and/or the developer in control of the subdivision(s)
               benefitted by the emergency access gate (the "responsible party") shall be required to install
               and maintain all emergency access gate facilities in a working and operable condition. The
               responsible party shall also be required to provide and ensure the maintenance of electricity
               and lighting at all gated emergency access entrances. In the event an emergency access gate
               becomes inoperable, the responsible party shall be required to restore the gate to an
               operable condition acceptable to the Draper City Fire and Police Departments within twenty
               (20) days from the date of discovery of the gate's inoperability. A responsible party shall be
               subject to a fine as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule for each day an emergency
               access gate remains inoperable beyond the twenty-day grace period.
               10. In the event a gate is inoperable or in need of repair, the gate shall remain in an open
               position until such time that adequate repairs can be made. The Draper City Fire and Police
               Departments shall have the right at any time to require a gate to remain in an open position
               if they have reason to believe the gate is not functioning properly or that the gate provides a
               potential hindrance to response times beyond that accepted at the time of approval of the
               gate.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of an amended site plan request is
found in Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H) of the DCMC. Typically amended site plans are reviewed by the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator has the ability to forward any amended site plan to the
Planning Commission for review, and has opted to do so with this application because the amended site
plan cannot be approved unless the Planning Commission approves a conditional use permit for the gate.
DCMC Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H) depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

          E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:



Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                                 App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request     4
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
               limited to, building heights, setbacks, access Pointes, parking, landscaping, and building
               materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
               and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development,
               as required by engineering standards and specifications.
               5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
               8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
               concerns.

          H. Amendments: Except as may be provided for in this section, no element of an approved site
              plan shall be changed or modified without first obtaining approval of an amended site plan
              as follows:
           1. Alteration or expansion of an approved site plan may be permitted by the Zoning
              Administrator upon making the following findings:
           a. The proposed use is consistent with uses permitted on the site;
           b. Existing uses were permitted when the site plan was approved, or have received a conditional
              use permit;
           c. The proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements of this Code;
           d. The proposed expansion meets the approval standards of subsection E of this section;
           e. The site can accommodate any change in the number of people on the site or any change in
              impact on surrounding infrastructure; and
           2. If the Zoning Administrator cannot make the findings required in this subsection H, the
              amended site plan may only be approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning
              Commission may only approve an amended site plan after a public hearing that complies
              with all requirements of this code, including section 9-5-045.
           3. If the Zoning Administrator can make all findings required in this subsection H the Zoning
              Administrator may approve the proposed amendment without a public hearing and without
              notice.
           4. Properties that do not conform to the standards found within this code may be required to
              come into compliance, subject to the standards in 9-6-040, 9-6-050, 9-6-060, and 9-6-070 of
              this title.

The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found in Section 9-5-
080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                              App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request   5
            4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
               use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
               reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                 a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                     the city's general plan and this title;
                 b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                 c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                     development in the vicinity;
                 d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                 e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                 f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                     drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                     protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                 g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                     noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
                 h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                     the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
            5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed
               to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
amended site plan and conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the amended site plan and conditional use permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the amended
site plan and conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the amended site plan
and conditional use permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

Conditional Use Permit:



Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                              App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request   6
          1.        A Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box is required and shall be mounted to a keypad
                    post or gate post. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box).
          2.        The gate be equipped with automatic operators for ingress and egress of emergency
                    services.
          3.        That the gate shall comply with DCMC Section 9-27-200(E) at all times.
          4.        That the gate shall comply with the International Fire Code standards for ingress and
                    egress at all times.

Site Plan:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                    and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                    construction of all fencing and gates on the site, including permitting.
          2.        That the gate shall comply with DCMC Section 9-27-200(E) at all times.
          3.        That the gate shall comply with the International Fire Code standards for ingress and
                    egress at all times.

Conditional Use Permit:

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed gate complies with all International Fire Code standards.
          2.        The proposed gate complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-27-200(C).
          3.        That the proposed conditional use permit complies with the standards found in DCMC
                    Section 9-5-080(E).

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed gate does not comply with all International Fire Code standards.
          2.        The proposed gate does not comply with the standards found in DCMC 9-27-200(C).
          3.        That the proposed conditional use permit does not comply with the standards found in
                    DCMC Section 9-5-080(E).

Site Plan:

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed gate complies with all International Fire Code standards.
          2.        The proposed gate complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-27-200(E).
          3.        That the proposed amended site plan complies with DCMC Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H).

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed gate does not comply with all International Fire Code standards.
          2.        The proposed gate does not comply with the standards found in DCMC 9-27-200(E).
          3.        That the proposed amended site plan does not comply with the standards found in DCMC
                    Sections 9-5-090(E) and (H).




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                             App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request   7
MODEL MOTIONS

Conditional Use Permit:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the conditional use permit, as requested by Mary
O’Donnell, representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate, application
USE-1098-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 25, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve conditional use permit, as requested by
Mary O’Donnell, representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate,
application USE-1098-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated November 25, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the conditional use permit, as requested by Mary
O’Donnell, representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate, application
USE-1098-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated November 25, 2020.

Site Plan:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Mary O’Donnell,
representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate, application SPR-1083-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated November 25,
2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Mary
O’Donnell, representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate, application
SPR-1083-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
November 25, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested by Mary O’Donnell,
representing Chandler Pointe at South Mountain for the emergency access gate, application SPR-1083-
2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated November 25, 2020.




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                           App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request   8
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.



                       Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                                Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky

Brien Maxfield         DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City, ou,
                       email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us, c=US                           Jennifer Jastremsky DN: C=US, E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                             O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
__________________________________
                       Date: 2020.12.01 16:51:57 -07'00'
                                                                                         __________________________________
                                                                                                             Date: 2020.11.30 11:16:58-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                      Draper City Planning Division


                                                                                         Mike  Barker
                                  Digitally signed by Don Buckley                                                         Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                  DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                                                   DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City Attorney,

 Don Buckley
__________________________________
                                  O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal,
                                  CN=Don Buckley
                                  Date: 2020.12.01 16:55:54-07'00'
                                                                                                                          email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US

                                                                                         __________________________________
                                                                                                                          Date: 2020.11.30 13:38:08 -07'00'



Draper City Fire Department                                                              Draper City Legal Counsel
                                  Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                                  DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draper.ut.us, O=Draper
                                  City, OU=Building Dept, CN=Keith Collier


Keith Collier                     Location: Home
                                  Reason: I agree to the terms defined by the
                                  placement of my signature on this document

__________________________________Contact Info: Keith Collier
                                  Date: 2020.11.30 11:27:36-07'00'


Draper City Building Division




Chandler Pointe at South Mountain                                                                                  App. # SPR-1083-2020, USE-1098-2020
Amended Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit Request                                 9
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed gate complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-27-200(E).

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Meets code requirements.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-five
               (25) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
               inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
               imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
               driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
               feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
               permits being issued.

               D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads shall
               be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs complying with Figure
               D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12 inches (305mm) wide by 18 inches
               (457mm) high and have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be,
               posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section D103.6.1 or
               D103.6.2.

       2.      Knox Box or Knox Switch Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be
               mounted to a keypad post or gate post. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock
               box purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. This can be ordered by going to
               www.knoxbox.com
       3.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
               numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
               shall contrast with their background.
       4.      Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being,
               issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
       5.      Notes: Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
               responsibility of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building.
               Damages to persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other
               emergency conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the Draper
               City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
     EXHIBIT C
OVERALL ROAD SYSTEM
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             73 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4. ' 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17 ° 44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S5                                   DISTURBED AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPOSED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25' WIDE DOUBLE GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ORNAMENTAL STEEL - MAJESTIC STYLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     POST                                           AUTOMATIC OPERATORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SOLAR CHANGING STATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TWO KEY PADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KNOX KEY BOX


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VICINITY MAP
                                                                    166 E HIGHLAND DR DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                         Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-352-022
                                                                          Land Use Cat.: VACANT LAND
                                                                         Land Use Desc.: COMMERCIAL
                                                                     Lot Area: 751,846.00 sqft (17.26 ACRES)
                                                                           Owner: UTAH CAPITAL LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14747 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GATE                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FUTURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUIDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPOSED SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14747 S DRAPER POINTE WAY DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-328-043
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Land Use Desc.: MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING (2-4 UNITS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Building Area: 107,519 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AREA:1,307.00 sqft (0.03 acres)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lot Area: 215,622.00 sqft (4.95 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Owner: DRAPER SOUTHPOINT APARTMENTS LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PARCEL #:34-07-331-001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20 25' 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .07 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FT W
                                                                                                                             FT W                                                                                                                                                     .49 3"
                                                                                                                           29 1"                                                                                                                                                   50 34' 4
                                                                                                                        8. ' 1                                                                                                                                                       9 °
                                                                                                                      36 ° 39                                                                                                                                                     S5
                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE                       0                                                                                                                    N30° 25' 23"W
                                                                                         SEE NOTE                     S5                                                                                                                      5.92 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14747 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FT W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .00 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20 25' 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16 34' 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .16 7"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9°                                                    Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                S5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Owner: ROSENFELD, MARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     "E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4'

                                                                                                                          AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9 ° 3 8 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N5 6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                S3 5.99                                                                     6

                                                                                                                   W                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HOUSE


                                                                                 NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20 25' 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEE NOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14751 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                               I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .16 7"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FT W
                                                                             PO ED)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Owner: ARAY, JOYCELYN




                                                                            R
                                                                           E LT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9° 48 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1"E



                                                            DL PHA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N 6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6                                        EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HOUSE
                                                           N S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S3 0.16




                                            A                         (A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20 25' 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25 T




                                         CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                 36 W)                                                                                                          14753 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .16 7"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (R                                                                                                                     Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EW




                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Owner: WILLIAMS, BRANDON C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 34 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9°
                                                                                                                                                                                                            SG




                                                                                          K
                                                                                   AL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N5 6.48
               36 OW
                (R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6
                 .0 )




                                                                                 EW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING
                   0'




                                                                             D
                                                                           SI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S3 0.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RA (ASP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20 25' 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 25 FT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .07 5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14755 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROPERTY LINES ACCORDING TO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NI HAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Owner: CHALLIS, DAVE JAMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              APPROXIMATE TO 07-T4S-R1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3"E                                                                                                                                                                                     SEC-7 T4S- R1E AREA REFERENCE PLAT, PREPARED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TE TED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9°                                                                                                                                                                                                   THE OFFICE OF SALT LAKE COUNTY SURVEYOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N5 6.48                                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOUSE                                                                                                                                                          THERE ARE NO OTHER PLAT MAP UPDATED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RI )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S3 0.16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                                       PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '1
                                                                                                                                                                           SID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14759 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14747 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                EW




                                                     GREEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      34 T                                                                                                                                                    PARCEL #:34-07-331-001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EL
                                                                                                                                                                                   A




                                                      AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9° 49 F
                                                                                                                                                                                  LK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Owner: PHILLIPS, MELISSA A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 0.                                                                                                                                                          AREA:1,307.00 sqft (0.03 acres)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                              3"W
                                                                                T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGAL INFORMATION: LOT 1, BLDG 40, CHANDLER POINTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                      0° 1 F
                                                                           '1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT SOUTH MOUNTAIN PH 3 PUD. 8945-2631 9148-8749
                                                                    S3 23.9
                                                                        06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GREEN
PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AREA                                                                                                                            N               SUBDIVISION: CHANDLER POINTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LEGAL LOT: 1 LEGAL BLOCK: -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S3 5.99




                                                                                                                                                                 N5 73.6                                                                                                                                                                                                              N30° 25' 17"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZONING: 5101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                   9° 5 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25 FT




                                                                                                                                                                     53    T                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.92 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAND USE CATEGORY: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '1




                                                                                                                                                                       '4
                                                                                                                                                                          4"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14874 S QUARRY POINT LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-383-032                                                                               LAND USE DESCRIPTION: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                     GREEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                      AREA                                                                                                                                                 8"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Land Use Desc.: MISCELLANEOUS RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OWNER NAME: ROSENFELD, MARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '3                                                                                                  Lot Area: 412,949.00 sqft (9.48 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W                   E
                                                                                                                         14762 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020                                                                                                                                                                                    34 T                                                                                         Owner: CHANDLER POINTE AT SOUTH MTN PH 3 HOMEOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OWNER ADDRESS: 1075 E SKYLER DR DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                 Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-330-009
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 9° 00 F
                                                                                                                                  Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL                                                                                                                                                                                    N 6.
                                                                                                                              Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                3"W
                                                  T




                                                                                                                                      Building Area: 876 sqft
                                        0° 1 F




                                                                                                                               Lot Area: 1742.00 sqft (0.04 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                        EXISTING
                                             '1




                                                                                                                                    Owner: BULLER, DELIA R
                                      S3 23.9
                                          06




                                                                                                                                                                         HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N5 15.9                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9° 9 F
                                                                                                                                   S5                                                                                                                                                                                                       53 T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '4
                                                                                                                                  N5 793°.56                                                                                                                                                                                                      2"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DESIGNED BY:
                                                                                                                                    793° 35' F4
                                                                                                                                        .5635 T4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0                       10      20                                              40       60 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9"W




                                                                                                                                             ' F4    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T




                                                                                     14766 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                 4T"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GREEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0° 9 F




                                                                                             Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-330-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REVISION #:            SHEET #:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '1




                                                                                              Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S3 25.9




                                                                                          Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N30° 06' 22"E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FT "E




                                                                                                  Building Area: 876 sqft
                                                                                           Lot Area: 1742.00 sqft (0.04 ACRES)                                                                                                                            36.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.92 FT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (RO 00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                           23 06' 1




                                                                                             Owner: ANDERSON, JOSHUA J

                                                                                                                            EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               " 12"   1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14769 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N5 50.4
                        14768 S GRANITE RIDGE LN DRAPER, UT 84020
                                Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-330-011                                                                                                                                                                                             W)                                                                     Parcel No. (APN): 34-07-331-006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0         1"  4                                                                 2"        3"
                                                                                                                                                                                                             .91




                                 Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL                                                                  HOUSE                                                                                                                                                                                                  Land Use Cat.: RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9° 9 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                             0°
                   "W




                             Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Land Use Desc.: CONDOMINIUM, PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5     T                                                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE:1":20'
          ° 0 1 FT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING 3' 42
                                                                                                                                                                                                           N3




                                     Building Area: 876 sqft                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Building Area: 1360 sqft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE=1":20'
                13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lot Area: 1307.00 sqft (0.03 ACRES)
                              Lot Area: 1742.00 sqft (0.04 ACRES)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           "W
                                 Owner: MAZHAR FAMILY LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Owner: PRES, JOSEPH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOUSE                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE: OCTOBER 2.020
             .9
             6'
          23
            30
 EXHIBIT G
GATE DETAILS
