Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 19, 2020
Re: Beehive Academy - Site Plan and Plat Amendment Requests Comments: This application is a request for approval of a site plan and plat amendment located at approximately 12197 S. 300 East.  At the time of the writing at this staff report, the site was currently zoned A5 with a pending request to rezone it to CN.  On November 12, the Planning Commission submitted a unanimous negative recommendation for the rezone application.  The City Council public hearing for the rezone is scheduled for their November 17, 2020 meeting.  Should that rezone be approved at that meeting, the site would then be zoned CN and the proposed plat amendment could create two lots bisected by a new road.  The northern lot where the proposed charter school would be located would be approximately 6.11 acres (Site) and the southern lot would be approximately 2.64 acres.  No development is proposed on the southern lot at this time.  A new road, 12200 South, would connect from the terminus of 12230 South on the east and curve north to connect with the existing roundabout on 300 East.  The subject of this report is for the site plan for the Site and plat amendment request.  If the rezone is not approved by the City Council on November 17, then the plat amendment would have to be withdrawn by the applicant as the property cannot be subdivided as currently proposed.  The proposed charter school is for grades K-12 and is anticipated to have a maximum enrollment of 1,000 students. The findings are as follows: Findings for a parking deviation approval:
1. Adequate parking will be provided.
2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
3. Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will not overburden the parking provided.
4. There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all associated uses.
5. Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1 of this chapter.
6. Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking.
7. Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition.
8. ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment.
Findings for site plan approval:
1.  The proposed development plans meet the applicable requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2.  The proposed development conforms with the physical development of the area.
3.  The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, pending the construction of the improvements recommended in the traffic study.
Findings for plat amendment approval:
1.The proposed plat amendment meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2. The proposed plat amendment will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general welfare of the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
3. There is good cause for the amendment and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
Findings for a parking deviation denial:
1. Adequate parking will not be provided.
2. The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual establishment in the development is not overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
3. Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will overburden the parking provided.
4. There is an not adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all associated uses.
5. Site or use specific conditions or factors provide for compliance with the parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in Section 9-25-100, Table 9-25-1 of this chapter.
Findings for site plan denial:
1. The proposed site plan for the charter school fails to comply with the standards found in UCA 10-9a-305(2)(b)(i)(A) which states: “ subject a charter school to standards within each zone pertaining to setback, height, bulk and massing regulations, off-site parking, curb cut, traffic circulation, and construction staging; and impose regulations upon the location of a project that are necessary to avoid unreasonable risks to health or safety, as provided in subsection (3)(f)”.
Findings for plat amendment denial:
1. There is not good cause for the vacation or amendment.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/16/2020 Backup Material