MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JULY
7, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:                 Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                         Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:                 There were none.

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Angela Fixmer,
                    Deputy City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                    Human Resource Director; Lieutenant Pat Evans; Russ Fox, Assistant City
                    Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Director of
                    Community Development; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                    Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting was held as an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As restrictions
take place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make sure everyone interested in
participating in City Council meetings can do so in a manner that they feel most comfortable. Individuals
could participate by:

      1. Listening through the Draper City Website: https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
      2. Emailing comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 p.m. on the day of the meeting.
         These will become part of the public record.
      3. Requesting the Zoom Meeting ID from public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, April 7, 2020, to
         be able to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting.
Study Meeting

1.0      Closed Session: By Motion
         The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a
         closed session to discuss the character, professional competence or physical or mental
         health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase,
         exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.

1.1      Councilmember Fred Lowry moved to enter into a Closed Session to discuss the
         above-stated issues. Councilmember Mike Green seconded the motion.

1.2      A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
         Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

**       The Council convened in a Closed Session.

2.0      Update: Capital Improvement Projects and Trail Plan – Rhett Ogden
2.1   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, provided an update on the status of the Capital
      Improvement Projects. He reported that staff had been planning for a new playground at
      Draper Park, which was the largest and most-utilized park in the City. The City had been
      saving for this project for the past couple of years. The existing equipment was about 15
      years old and would be replaced as part of this project. The City would start accepting
      proposals in the fall so that by next Spring the new playground could be installed.

      Mr. Ogden also reported that staff would be doing crack and slurry seal work on Porter
      Rockwell and the Canal Trail, as well as several parking lots throughout the City. He
      presented several photos of the East Jordan Canal and Corner Canyon Creek trail projects,
      noting that the entire project should be done this summer except a small section between
      Carlquist and Golden Pheasant. Bank work was needed along the canal, and the staff had
      to wait until after October 15th when the canal was not full of water. He noted that they
      would be starting work along Corner Canyon Creek later in the week. In response to a
      question from Mayor Walker, Mr. Ogden stated that there currently was no funding
      available for Phase 2 of the project.

      Mr. Ogden reported that Peak View Trailhead should be completed by late summer. There
      would be 57 new stalls, picnic shelters, and a restroom at the trailhead once completed. He
      then discussed the trail connection from the dog park at Galena Park to the Jordan River
      Parkway, reporting that the project was moving along and should be completed sometime
      that month. The All-Abilities Playground was currently on hold due to funding issues from
      the County. It was anticipated that the Jordan River Boat Launch portion of the park would
      be installed later this summer/early fall. Mr. Ogden noted that the staff was working with
      Lehi City on a connection of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail.

      Mr. Ogden stated that the Parks, Trails, and Recreation Master Plan was currently on hold.
      They were planning to have the kick-off meeting at the end of March, however, it got put
      on the backburner due to COVID-19. He explained that one focus was to reduce user
      conflict between cyclists and hikers along the trails. He presented a graph showing that 10
      percent (approximately nine miles worth) of Draper’s trails were footpaths only; the
      majority of trails were multi-use. He then reviewed a list of new trails and parking lots that
      were recently completed, including resources added on the Utah County side in Lehi. He
      presented several options to where new parking lots could be added.

2.2   Mayor Walker asked Councilmembers if they had any questions for Mr. Ogden. The
      question was asked as to what staff needed from the Council to start Phase 2 of the Corner
      Canyon Creek project, to which Mr. Ogden indicated this phase was currently unfunded.
      He continued that Phase 2 included the area behind the Bellevue neighborhood where the
      trail easement encroached into private residential properties.

      Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey said she was not in favor of continuing with this project.
      She did not agree with putting a paved trail across someone else’s property, even though
      there was an easement in that area. Mayor Walker noted that paved trails had been placed
      on easements in the past.

                                           Page 2 of 7
      Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey remarked that it was imperative the City focus on hiking
      trails at this time; she appreciated that staff was heading in this direction. Councilmember
      Tasha Lowery agreed with Councilmember Vawdrey, adding that there was a real need for
      these trails. As a City, they had done a great deal to support the mountain biking
      community. Councilmember Green also agreed that a balance was needed.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if it would be possible to create something similar to Lupine
      Loop, which was accessible to families, at the mouth of Corner Canyon. Mr. Ogden
      indicated that there were several options they could explore on this matter.

3.0   Report: Lone Peak Parkway Construction Update – Scott Cooley

3.1   Scott Cooley, Public Works and Engineering Director, explained that the City’s
      negotiations with the Lone Peak Center had not been fruitful. They approached the Council
      under the threat of condemnation and presented their case with the claim that they had $2
      million to $5 million in damages, should the City proceed with the original design. Staff
      had since come up with a modification that needed to be presented to the Council. Mr.
      Cooley presented an aerial map and concept drawings, explaining that the City had all of
      the rights-of-way that were needed. He explained that a section along the Lone Peak Center
      had been widened to the west, but the east could not be widened without impacting the
      Center. Staff proposed to modify the design to address southbound traffic, which was
      primarily an issue with the school. He further discussed the aerial map shown during the
      presentation, explaining that they would not need to touch the curb and gutter on the east
      side. Mr. Cooley noted that there had been slowdowns going northbound as well, and part
      of this was due to signals. Therefore, the staff was proposing modifications to an adjacent
      section. He reviewed other improvements that could be made to improve traffic flow along
      Lone Peak Parkway.

3.2   David Dobbins, City Manager stated that the staff had a phone call with an adjacent
      property owner today. They indicated they would be willing to dedicate the property
      needed by the City. Additionally, they would like to purchase a portion of the property
      and develop approximately 60 units per acre of multi-family housing, as a trade-off for the
      right-of-way.

      Councilmember Fred Lowry said they did not know what the future traffic would be like.
      He stated that Mr. Cooley had presented a good solution that would at least alleviate
      pressure on the school.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery agreed with both Mr. Cooley and Councilmember Lowry.
      She did not want to be held hostage by a developer. Councilmembers Vawdrey, Green,
      and Roberts also concurred.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports




                                          Page 3 of 7
4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey asked about a pocket park on Willow Springs Lane, noting that
      it had a water issue on one of the sidewalks. The puddle was an issue a couple of years
      ago and was fixed, but the problem was present again.

4.2   Mr. Ogden indicated he was not aware the issue had become a problem again. He said
      staff would address the matter.

4.3   Councilmember Fred Lowry briefly discussed the Canyons Education Foundation, which
      was part of the Canyon School District. Typically, each year they had a fundraiser that the
      City helped support. However, due to COVID-19, they had to cancel their annual gala.
      Instead of the gala, they would be holding a golf tournament and as such, they were looking
      for sponsors. Councilmember Lowry asked if the City could help sponsor the event
      because in the past the City had always purchased a table for the gala. The Council voiced
      support for this idea.

4.4   Mayor Walker stated that he would like to form a Cultural Advisory Board, and he had
      various ideas of what he would like it to accomplish. The goal of the board would be to
      address hot social topics at this time. He would like the board to also be actively engaged
      in speaking events throughout the year, as well as an annual celebration. The Council
      voiced support for this idea.


Business Meeting

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

      a. Determination 2020-01, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

1.1   I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the
      Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and
      safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper
      City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

      The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
         • Federal, State, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council,
             have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
         • COVID-19 cases in Salt Lake County and Draper continue to increase at rates
             which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
         • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting
             and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State
             Phased Guidelines.
         • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
             welfare of Draper City residents.
         • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may
             hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
             hearings.

                                          Page 4 of 7
      The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder’s Office.

2.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of the June 16, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Agreement #20-98, with Gold Cross Services for Ambulance Services
      c. Approval of Agreement #20-35, Assessment-in-Lieu for Silverlou Subdivision, for
         the public frontage improvements on Fort Street for the Silverlou Subdivision,
         per Draper City Municipal Code 9-27-110 (C)
      d. Approval of Resolution #20-35, re-appointing a regular member of the Youth
         Council Advisory Board
      e. Approval of Resolution #20-36, appointing a regular member of the Draper City
         Planning Commission
      f. Approval of Resolution #20-37, appointing an alternate member to the Draper
         Planning Commission.
      g. Approval of Resolution #20-38, appointing members to the Draper City Building
         Board of Appeals

2.1   Councilmember Green moved to approve the Consent Items.                    Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

2.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

3.0   Public Hearing: Holmes Homes Office Land Use Amendment and Zoning Map
      Amendment Request (Legislative Action)

**    On the request of the applicant, this item was continued to the July 21, 2020, City Council
      Meeting.

3.1   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

3.3   Councilmember Green moved to approve to continue this item to the July 21, 2020,
      City Council Meeting. Councilmember Fred Lowry seconded the motion.

3.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Public Hearing: Resolution # 20-33, surplus of property along 12100 South. Surplus
      of property formally a public right-of-way along a portion of 12100 South

4.1   Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, presented the staff report as well as an aerial map of
      the subject property. He explained that the area in question was rezoned on October 2,
      2018. Since then, there had been other applications received, including one for a
      subdivision that was submitted in June 2019. The vacation of the right-of-way was

                                          Page 5 of 7
      approved by the City Council on January 14, 2020. This property was situated west of 700
      East, as part of the 12100 South right-of-way. Since this property was in the Draperville
      Plat area, it did not just automatically go to the adjacent property owners, as would be the
      case in a normal vacation of the property. The property would need to be surplused and
      sold. This resolution would allow plenty of width if the City ever wanted to extend the
      roadway.

4.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

4.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to continue this item to a date uncertain.
      Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

4.5   Councilmember Vawdrey stated that they needed to study the full impacts this action would
      have on the broader area. Councilmember Fred Lowry asked if the easement continued to
      flow east and west of the subject area. Mr. Cooley identified the right-of-way on the aerial
      map, as well as the area that had been vacated. There was further discussion on the matter.

4.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion moved to continue unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1444, amending Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to
      the discharge of fireworks

5.1   Chief Clint Smith said the staff was proposing a small change to the City’s fireworks
      restrictions map. He presented an aerial map of the City and pointed out a small area
      centered around Draper Parkway from the Trax line east to 1300 East. Anything included
      north of the Trax line would be included in the restricted areas shown on the map. This
      would create a contiguous restricted area, including the Draper Wetlands area as well as
      dry, open hillsides.

5.2   Councilmember Fred Lowry thanked Chief Smith for identifying these hazardous areas,
      and he asked if there were any others of which they should be aware. Chief Smith said
      many of the other problem areas were in and around undeveloped land. He also explained
      that the main focus was on protecting the urban interface area.

      Mayor Walker stated that the City could not completely ban fireworks in the City; they
      could only identify those at-risk areas. Chief Smith concurred.

      Councilmember Green expressed appreciation for the fire department. Chief Smith noted
      they had tried to be proactive about communicating safety tips to the public. He briefly
      discussed several fire incidents that had occurred during the 4th of July weekend and
      compared this year’s statistics to those from last year.

5.3   Councilmember Fred Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1444, amending Draper
      City Municipal Code. Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

                                          Page 6 of 7
5.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Adjournment

6.1   Councilmember Tasha Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m.




                                       Page 7 of 7
