                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                            December 7, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: December 17, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office – 2nd Site Plan Request
         Application No.:  SPR-1069-2020
         Applicant:        Jay Olsen, representing Olsen and Associates
         Project Location: 11450 S 820 W
         Current Zoning:   RM1 (Multi-family Residential, up to 8 dwelling units per acre), CN
                           (Neighborhood Commercial), and RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000
                           square foot lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          4.789 Acres (Approximately 208,591 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a site plan in the RM1, CN, and RA2 zone for a 30
                           unit townhome development and an office building.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a site plan for approximately 4.789 acres located at
approximately 11450 S 820 W (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RM1, CN, and RA2 The
applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant
site into 30 townhome units and a an office building.

On February 21, 2019 the Planning Commission approved a site plan on the property for 30 townhome
units and an office building. The Planning Commission then approved a preliminary subdivision plat on
July 25, 2019. An application for final plat was obtained on August 9, 2019. The applicant then obtained
an extension of approval on the site plan approval from the Planning Commission on April 9, 2020. This
extended the site plan approval by six months to August 21, 2020. Unfortunately the applicants work on
the project was delayed due to health reasons and no land disturbance permit under the site plan was
obtained prior to the August 21, 2020 expiration date and the site plan expired. The applicant has since
applied for a new site plan, which is the subject of this report.

There is a zoning anomaly within the 4.789 acre property. As previously noted the current zoning does
contain a small 0.29 acre, 6% of the 4.789 acre property, section of land that is indicated on the zoning
map as being within the RA2 zoning designation. Staff research has uncovered an error on the legal
descriptions used when the subject property, and the land adjacent, was rezoned on September 1, 2009.
On that date the 0.29 acres in question was supposed to have been rezoned from RA2 to RM1. The




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                         App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                 1
September 1, 2009 rezone was for 18.56 acres (Master Project) and included the subject 4.789 acres, the
area that has been developed as Soccer City and the Windsor Mill Subdivision. The legal descriptions
provided in the 2009 ordinance did not include the entire 18.56 acres, it left a small approximately 1.05
acre area in the RA2 zone. Because it was clearly a clerical error in the rezone legal description for the
Master Project, staff is recommending that the application be reviewed tonight with a condition of
approval that the RA2 zoned area be rezoned to the RM1 zone at a future date.

For reference, the plat shows 6,200 square feet, or 0.142 acres, of land being dedicated to the City as
public right-of-way. This area is located within the RA2 zone. The remainder of the RA2 zoned area is a
small strip of land that runs along the west property line and encompasses a UDOT easement. This strip
of land measures 10-feet to 23-feet wide and is utilized as common space within the townhome
development.

 Zoning         Acres          Square Feet
 RA2            0.29           12,809.02
 CN             1.01           44,166.40
 RM1            3.48           151,543.19


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Medium-High
Density, Neighborhood Commercial, and Residential Low/Medium Density land use designations for the
subject property (Exhibit C). These categories are characterized as follows:




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                         App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                2
Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office       App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request               3
The property has been assigned the RM1, CN, and RA2 zoning classifications (Exhibit D). According to
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of these zoning designations are as
follows:

         RM1 zone is to “permit well designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at
         relatively high densities that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding
         land uses.”

         CN zone is “provide areas where convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be
         established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a
         combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs
         of nearby residents.”

         RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
         municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to
         promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
         limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be
         detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial
         uses.”




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                         App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                4
The property abuts the A5 (Agricultural, 5-acre lot minimum) and RA2 zone to the west, the R3 (Single-
family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) and RA2 zone to the south, and the RM1 zone to the
east.

Site Plan Layout. The Windsor Mill Townhomes will be accessed exclusively from Windsor Mill Drive,
with a separate single point of ingress/egress for the townhomes and the office building (Exhibit E). The
townhome portion of the project will consist of nine duplexes and four triplexes, for a total of 30 units.
Each unit will front onto a 42-foot private right-of-way, consisting of 30 feet of drivable surface with a
six-foot sidewalk on each side to aid pedestrian movement and safety. The driveway for each unit will
meet or exceed 20 feet in length, which is the minimum requirement for a multi-family development. The
shared driveway configuration will provide ample opportunity for residents and visitors to park off-street.
In addition, there will be eight dedicated visitor parking stalls. The interior of the residential portion of the
site contains an existing wetland area that will remain undisturbed.

To the east of the townhomes there will be a two-story 15,814 square foot office building. The building
will be located in the northeast corner of the site with parking stalls to the west and south.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. For commercial projects, DCMC requires a minimum 20% landscaping,
and for a multi-family project it requires 30% landscaping. The landscape plan shows that both of these
minimums are satisfied (Exhibit G). The office portion will provide 29% landscaping, with 7% of that
amount in the parking area as required by code. The townhome portion will provide 38%
landscaping/open space. The planting plan shows ample numbers of trees in a wide variety on both the
commercial and residential sections. Numerous shrubs, ornamental grasses and perennials will fill in
throughout the site, especially near the buildings’ foundations. Some of the landscape beds will contain
four-inch minimum rock mulch over a weed barrier fabric, and others will contain four-inch minimum
shredded bark mulch over a weed barrier fabric. As noted earlier, the wetland area will remain untouched,
but the developer will seed field grasses and wild flowers around the perimeter of the wetland area for a
natural looking transition.

DCMC Section 9-32-030(F)(1) states that multi-family projects shall include at least one amenity per 50
units, and then provides a list of eight amenities from which to choose. The applicant has chosen DCMC
9-32-030(F)(1)(a.)(7). They will provide a natural open space area with benches and viewing areas. The
landscape plan shows a pedestrian walkway improved with pavers lining the north side of the wetland
area. The walkway will access two cantilevered observation decks that will contain a sitting bench under
a pergola.

Parking. According to Table 9-25-1 of the DCMC, each multi-family dwelling unit requires two parking
spaces per unit and one visitor parking stall for every four units. An office building requires four parking
stalls for every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. As such, the townhome portion of the project, which
contains 30 units, requires 60 off-street parking stalls and eight visitor parking stalls. This requirement is
satisfied, with two garage stalls provided per unit, and eight visitor parking stalls located throughout the
site. In addition, the site contains at least two driveway stalls per unit. For the commercial portion, the
15,814 square foot building requires 57-70 parking stalls. The site plan shows 61 parking stalls. (Exhibit
E)

Architecture. The elevation drawings show that the office building and each of the townhome units will
have four-sided architecture consisting of 100% primary materials (Exhibit H). The materials will be fiber
cement board and brick, both of which are considered primary. The design of all buildings shows
numerous variations in the surface plane, distinguished treatment of windows and doors, and no
undisturbed rooflines longer than 50 feet. The height limitation in both the CN and RM1 zones is 35 feet.



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                             App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                  5
The elevation plans show that no building in the development will exceed that limit, as measured from
average finished grade to midpoint of highest roof. All the buildings on site are two stories in height.

The building design standards for multi-family developments require the townhomes to contain at least
50% brick, stone, or synthetic stone on all sides of the structure, per DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3). The
applicant has requested a deviation to this standard. DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3)(c) allows the
Planning Commission to approve a deviation to allow other materials if there is a predominant building
material that exists in the project vicinity.

         9-32-030(B)
         3. Building materials for multiple-family structures shall consist of at least fifty percent (50%)
         brick, stone, or synthetic stone on all sides of the structure.
            a. The planning commission may grant a deviation from this clause to allow accumulation or
         clustering of brick, stone, or synthetic stone on the most publicly visible sides of the structure.
         This deviation is dependent on compliance with the following standards:
             (1) The use of brick, stone, or synthetic stone is equal to a gross calculation of square
         footage of fifty percent (50%) or more of all structure sides.
             (2) Structure design meets subsection B2 of this section.
            b. Windows are excluded from the gross calculation of exterior building materials.
            c. The planning commission may also grant a deviation from this clause if a predominant
         building material exists in the project vicinity and the use of the material will uphold the existing
         character and style of the given neighborhood. The project developer may present the proposed
         building material (and color) to the planning commission to substantiate the quality and
         durability of the proposed dominant material.

The applicant has stated the residential neighborhoods in the vicinity of the development contain a mix of
brick and fiber cement and do not contain a majority of brick or stone. The applicant is proposing a
similar mix of brick with fiber cement. The proposed elevations will contain 25% to 52% brick. The
applicants request letter can be found in Exhibit I.

Lighting. Chapter 9-20-040(G) of the DCMC states that “the maximum number of primary light poles to
be implemented on a site shall be limited to a ratio of one pole for not less than 10,000 square feet of
gross site area”. The total commercial area of the site is 44,242 square feet, meaning that this project can
have up to 4 light poles. The lighting plan shows 4. The plan shows a maximum illumination at the
property lines adjacent to residential as 0.2 foot candles, as required by DCMC. In addition to the light
poles, there will be wall pack lighting on elevations of all buildings and bollards within the plaza area.
Lighting will be shielded and downward directed to avoid light spillage at the property line.

Fencing. The subject property slopes from east to west, and therefore requires a number of retaining walls
throughout the project. The retaining wall plan shows the various retaining walls and their locations
(Exhibit F). The applicant understands that he must obtain a building permit for each of these walls. One
of the requirements of the landscape code, as set forth in Section 9-23-110(A)(5) of the DCMC is that “a
six-foot high masonry, precast concrete, lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete, or lightweight steel
reinforced polyethylene plastic wall shall be used between abutting commercial, industrial, or office land
uses and residential zones”. The retaining wall that separates the office building and townhome portions
of the project will be nine feet tall on the townhome side of the project. Staff’s opinion is that this wall
satisfies the land use differential requirement, but that a 42” high wrought iron guardrail needs to be
placed atop the wall to mitigate the danger of a nine-foot drop off from the office parking lot. This
requirement has been included in the conditions of approval.

Flood Zone. The subdivision plat shows an area equaling 19,669 square feet that is located within the



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                            App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                  6
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Zone AE. This area contains all or a portion of
five townhome units. Construction within the Flood Zone AE is permitted by FEMA. There are specific
standards of construction that FEMA will require. The geo-technical report took into account the flood
zone and high ground water in the area and sets construction standards. These standards will be reviewed
with each building permit. In addition, all property owners within the flood zone will be required to
obtain flood insurance, and a separately proposed plat references that requirement.

Geo-technical Review. In reviewing the geo-technical report it was noted that the fill that is currently on
the site may experience settlement of up to 8-inches. Our geo-technical consultant has asked that further
testing be done on that fill and all utility and road improvements be designed to account for any
settlement. The applicant has obtained an addendum letter from their consultant and approval from the
City’s geo-technical consultant that recommends the existing fill be removed under roadways and
structures.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a site plan request is found in
Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

         E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
               approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
               limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
               materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
               and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
               development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
               8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
               concerns.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the site plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the site plan submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the site plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, in working with the Draper
City Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed his review of the geotechnical report submitted
as a part of the site plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the site plan submission.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                          App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                 7
Parks & Trails Committee Review. The Draper City Parks and Trails Committee has completed their
review of the site plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the requests, receive public comment, and make
a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

Architectural Deviation:

         1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.        That a deviation to DCMC Section 9-32-030(B)(3) is granted allowing townhome
                   elevations that do not comply with the 50% of brick or stone on all sides of the structure,
                   and that the applicant is allowed to use fiber cement as it is a predominant building
                   material that already exists in the project vicinity.

Site Plan:

         1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                   of the site and the construction of all buildings and infrastructure on the site.
         3.        That as a safety measure, the developer installs a 48” closed-face fence on top of the
                   retaining wall that separates the office building from the townhomes.
         4.        That for maintenance purposes, the city-owned portion of the park strip on the west side
                   of 820 West is filled in with 4” of concrete.
         5.        That approval of the site plan does not constitute approval of any signage. Any and all
                   signage shall be required to receive separate sign permit approval.
         6.        Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) the site plan shall become null and void in 1 year if a land
                   disturbance permit is not issued. A one item 6-month extension to this expiration date can
                   be requested prior to expiration of the site plan.
         7.        The legal description error from the 2009 rezone be fixed by rezoning the section of
                   property zoned RA2 to the RM1 zone prior to issuance of any building permits.

Architectural Deviation:

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The deviation complies with the deviation standards listed in DCMC Section 9-32-
                   030(B)(3).




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                            App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                   8
The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The deviation does not comply with the deviation standards listed in DCMC Section 9-
                   32-030(B)(3).

Site Plan:

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The entire site is being developed at one time.
         2.        The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                   limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                   materials.
         3.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                   plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
         4.        The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                   development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
         5.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                   7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                   concerns.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including
                   building materials.


MODEL MOTIONS

Architectural Deviation:

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Architectural Deviation to DCMC Section 9-
32-030(B)(3), as requested by Jay Olsen, representing Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes
and Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-1069-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Architectural Deviation to DCMC
Section 9-32-030(B)(3), as requested by Jay Olsen, representing Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill
Townhomes and Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-1069-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Architectural Deviation to DCMC Section 9-32-
030(B)(3), as requested by Jay Olsen, representing Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes and
Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-1069-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
December 7, 2020.

Site Plan:



Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                              App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                    9
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Jay Olsen,
representing Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-
1069-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December
7, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the site plan, as requested by Jay Olsen,
representing Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-
1069-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December
7, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan, as requested by Jay Olsen, representing
Olsen Associates for Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office 2nd Site Plan, application SPR-1069-2020,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020.




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                       App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                               10
                  DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.

                                                                                                                         Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                                                         DN: C=US,
                      Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield
                                                                                                                         E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,

 Brien Maxfield
                      DN: cn=Brien Maxfield, o=Draper City,
                      ou, email=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                   Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Draper City Planning, CN=Jennifer
                      c=US                                                                                               Jastremsky
__________________________________
                      Date: 2020.12.09 17:10:29 -07'00'
                                                                                                  __________________________________
                                                                                                                         Date: 2020.12.09 16:57:47-07'00'


Draper City Public Works Department                                                               Draper City Planning Division


                                Digitally signed by Don Buckley


                                                                                                  Mike Barker
                                                                                                                         Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                                DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us, O=Draper

Don Buckley                     City Fire Department, OU=Fire Marshal, CN=Don
__________________________________
                                Buckley
                                Date: 2020.12.10 14:22:46-07'00'
                                                                                                                         DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City, ou=City Attorney,
                                                                                                                         email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
                                                                                                  __________________________________
                                                                                                                         Date: 2020.12.10 09:30:23 -07'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                                                       Draper City Legal Counsel

                               Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                               DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draper.ut.us, O=Draper City,
                               OU=Building Dept, CN=Keith Collier


 Keith Collier                 Location: Home
                               Reason: I agree to the terms defined by the placement of my
                               signature on this document

__________________________________
                               Contact Info: Keith Collier
                               Date: 2020.12.10 09:45:08-07'00'


Draper City Building Division




Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office                                                                                                               App. # SPR-1069-2020
2nd Site Plan Request                                                                        11
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      With the architectural deviation to the townhome units, the plans conform to DCMC.
       2.      The architectural deviation appears to be compatible with the adjacent neighborhoods.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
               construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division.
       2.      Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
               the Engineering Division.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      Based substantially in and on reliance of the technical documentation and assurances
               provided by CMT, including their opinions and conclusions, it is TG’s opinion that CMT
               has adequately addressed geotechnical parameters at the site, consistent with concerns for
               public health, safety and welfare; reasonable professional standards of practice and
               Draper City’s Geologic Hazards Ordinance (Draper City, 2010).
       2.      A liquefaction study was completed for the subject site. CMT concluded that the site is
               susceptible up to 1 inch of liquefaction induced settlement and 2 feet of liquefaction
               induced lateral spread.
       3.      In accordance with Section 9-19-120 of the Draper City Geologic Hazard Ordinance, the
               property owner of the parcel should record, prior to the approval of any development on
               the property, a disclosure and acknowledgment form running with the land indicating the
               site is within a geologic hazard study area and found to be susceptible to liquefaction.

Fire Division Review.

       Townhomes
       1.    Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six
             (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
             inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
             imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
             driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
             feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
             permits being issued.

               D103.6 Signs. Where required by the fire code official, fire apparatus access roads shall
               be marked with permanent NO PARKING—FIRE LANE signs complying with Figure
               D103.6. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of 12 inches (305mm) wide by 18 inches
               (457mm) high and have red letters on a white reflective background. Signs shall be,
               posted on one or both sides of the fire apparatus road as required by Section D103.6.1 or
        D103.6.2.

2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
        Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department
        prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any
        of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
        permits could be revoked.
3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
        water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
        being received or delivered on building site.
4.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
        water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
        being received or delivered on building site.
5.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
        numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
        shall contrast with their background.
6.      Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being
        issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible

Office
1.     Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six
       (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
       inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
       imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
       driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
       feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
       permits being issued.
4.     Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
       Department Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department
       prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any
       of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
       permits could be revoked.
5.     Fire Hydrants are required. This project needs 3 hydrants. They are to be protected with
       bollards if susceptible to vehicle damage. The required fire flow for this project is
       3250GPM for full 3 hour duration. A 50% reduction is allowed in fire flow which is
       1625gpm for 2 hours, for installation of fire sprinklers.
6.     No combustible construction shall be, allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
       water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
       being received or delivered on building site.
7.     Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
       drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A
       complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans
       must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to
       be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking
       Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO
       BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
8.     Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser
       room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted
       P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building
       with a tamper switch.
9.     Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent
              via email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set
              of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped
              by a NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS
              REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER
              FIRE DEPARTMENT.
       10.    Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
              exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access
              to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box
              purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached information form.
       11.    Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
              numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers
              shall contrast with their background.
       12.    Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being,
              issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.

Parks & Trails Committee Review.

       1.     Note that any park strip to be maintained by the City shall be low maintenance such as
              stamped concrete.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GENERAL NOTES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PKWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S JORDAN GATEWAY
                       CALL BLUESTAKES
               R       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ℄                                                                                                                                                                                          1.    ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AND SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.     ALL HYDRANTS AND A FORM OF ACCEPTABLE TEMPORARY FIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DEPARTMENT ACCESS TO THE SITE SHALL BE INSTALLED AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIVER FRONT
                       PRIOR TO THE                                                 6'-0"                                     2'-6"                                             12'-6"                                                                                12'-6"                                               2'-6"                             6'-0"                                                                                                                                                                        APPROVED BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STATE ST
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.    ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND                                                             ANY BUILDING PERMITS. IF AT ANY TIME DURING THE BUILDING PHASE
Know what's below.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1300 W
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RECOMMENDATIONS.                                                                                                ANY OF THE HYDRANTS OR TEMPORARY FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BECOMES NON-COMPLIANT, ANY AND ALL PERMITS COULD BE                                                                                                                                        SITE
                                                                                                                                                              3" ASPHALTIC CONCRETE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.    SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL,                                                        REVOKED.
           BENCHMARK                                                                                                                                       PER SPECIFICATIONS, DM-1/2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOR, FINISH, AND SCORE PATTERNS THROUGHOUT SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.     NO COMBUSTIBLE CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE ALLOWED PRIOR TO
EAST QUARTER CORNER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.    ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION                                                       HYDRANT INSTALLATION AND TESTING BY WATER PURVEYOR. ALL
SECTION 23, T3S, R1W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OF THE M.U.T.C.D. (MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL                                                            HYDRANTS MUST BE OPERATIONAL PRIOR TO ANY COMBUSTIBLE
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DEVICES).                                                                                                       ELEMENTS BEING RECEIVED OR DELIVERED ON BUILDING SITE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LONE PE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I-15
(FOUND BRASS CAP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5.    ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL                                                 10.    NO COMBUSTIBLE CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE ALLOWED PRIOR TO
ELEVATION = 4401.32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BE RESTORED OR REPLACED, INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE                                                         HYDRANT INSTALLATION AND TESTING BY WATER PURVEYOR. ALL
                                                                                              SIDEWALK PER APWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AK PKW
                                                                                                                                                  PROPERLY PREPARED SUBGRADE OR                                                                                  8" UNTREATED BASE COURSE COMPACTED PER                                                TYPE "A" CURB AND GUTTER                                           SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT                                                       HYDRANTS MUST BE OPERATIONAL PRIOR TO ANY
                                                                                              STANDARD PLAN NO. 231                               FILL COMPACTED PER GEOTECHNICAL                                                                                GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                PER APWA STANDARD PLAN                                             THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.                                                          COMBUSTIBLE ELEMENTS BEING RECEIVED OR DELIVER ON BUILDING
                                                                                              AND SPECIFICATIONS                                         REPORT AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                                     NO. 205 AND SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                                         SITE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6.    NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEFORE PLACING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.                                                                      11.    STREET SIGNS ARE REQUIRED AND ARE TO BE POSTED AND LEGIBLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMITS BEING ISSUED. ALL LOTS TO HAVE LOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Architecture
                                                                                                                                                   1            ROAD CROSS SECTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7.    THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND SIGNS, ETC. UNLESS OTHERWISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NUMBER AND ADDRESS POSTED AND LEGIBLE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VICINITY MAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:NONE                                                                                                         NOTED ON THESE PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRE NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (NOT TO SCALE)                                                                                     Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXIST. STREET                                                                                                                     1.       D103.6 SIGNS. WHERE REQUIRED BY THE FIRE CODE OFFICIAL, FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS                                                         Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXIST. STREET
                                                                                                                                                                    LIGHT TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LIGHT TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LIGHT TO REMAIN                                  EXIST. "BIKE LANE"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIGN TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROADS SHALL BE MARKED WITH PERMANENT NO PARKING - FIRE LANE SIGNS COMPLYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WITH FIGURE D103.6. SIGNS SHALL HAVE A MINIMUM DIMENSION OF 12 INCHES WIDE BY 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Construction Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. EDGE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INCHES HIGH AND HAVE RED LETTERS ON A WHITE REFLECTIVE BACKGROUND. SIGNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHALL BE POSTED ON ONE OR BOTH SIDES OF THE FIRE APPARATUS ROAD AS REQUIRED                                                                              5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BY SECTION D103.6.1 OR D103.6.2.                                                                                                                              Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ph: 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.       HYDRANTS AND SITE ACCESS. ALL HYDRANTS AND A FORM OF ACCEPTABLE TEMPORARY                                                                                          Fax: 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS TO THE SITE SHALL BE INSTALLED AND APPROVED BY THE FIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. STOP SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING PERMITS. IF AT ANY TIME DURING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7                     TO REMAIN                                     THE BUILDING PHASE ANT OF THE HYDRANTS OR TEMPORARY FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXIST. "NO MOTOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The designsshownand describedhereinincluding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BECOMES NON-COMPLIANT, ANY AND ALL PERMITS COULD BE REVOKED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VEHICLES" SIGN TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              all technicaldrawings,graphicrepresentation&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         models thereof, are proprietary& can not be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3.       NO COMBUSTIBLE CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE ALLOWED PRIOR TO HYDRANT INSTALLATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND TESTING BY WATER PURVEYOR. ALL HYDRANTS MUST BE OPERATIONAL PRIOR TO                                                              copied,duplicated,or commerciallyexploitedin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. "NO PARKING"                                                                                                                                                           wholeor in partwithoutthesoleandexpresswritten
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SIGN TO REMAIN                          ANY COMBUSTIBLE ELEMENTS BEING RECEIVED OR DELIVERED ON BUILDING SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  permission fromASWN+JSA Architects, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. ASPHALT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.       VISIBLE ADDRESSING REQUIRED. NEW AND EXISTING BUILDINGS SHALL HAVE APPROVED                                                           Thesedrawingsare availablefor limitedreviewand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TRAIL TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS NUMBERS PLAINLY LEGIBLE AND VISIBLE FROM THE STREET FRONTING THE                                                              evaluation by clients, consultants,contractors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY. THESE NUMBERS SHALL CONTRAST WITH THEIR BACKGROUND.                                                                         government agencies, vendors, and office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  personnel only in accordance with this notice.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19                                                               5.       STREET SIGNS REQUIRED AND ARE TO BE POSTED AND LEGIBLE PRIOR TO BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PERMITS BEING ISSUED. ALL LOTS TO HAVE LOT NUMBER OR ADDRESS POSTED AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LEGIBLE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.3'
                                                                                                                                                                     5.8'
                                                                                                                              19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING NOTES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.3'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13                                                                                                                                                               1.       A LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT IS REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ONSITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     820 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19                                                                                                                                                                                                PERMIT IS OBTAINED THROUGH THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
                                        RAIL




                                                                                                                                                      13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL PARCEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.       ANY WORK IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WILL REQUIRE AN ENCROACHMENT PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OBTAINED THROUGH THE ENGINEERING DIVISION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                       11                    10                                                        9                                                                                                    208,591 sq. ft.                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCOPE OF WORK:
                                     RKWAY T




                                                                                                                              14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.79 acres                                                                           (TYP)
                                                                    PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVIDE, INSTALL AND/OR CONSTRUCT THE FOLLOWING PER THE SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         848 W WINDSOR MILL DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR REFERENCED, THE DETAILS NOTED, AND/OR AS SHOWN ON THE CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                   876 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9                                                                                                                                               DRAWINGS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   858 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          864 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            866 W                                                                                         852 W                                                                                                                                      9.4'       18.0'            24.0'                  18.0'                                     72.3'                                11.3' 5.0'                                                       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASPHALT PAVEMENT: 3” THICK ASPHALTIC CONCRETE WITH 8” UNTREATED BASE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.5'
                                RIVER PA




                                                                                                                                                                                874 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COURSE PER GEOTECHNICAL REPORT AND DETAIL 5/C-500.
                                                                                                                                   882 W                                                                                                                                         14.0'                                                                                     10                                                                                                                                                                        6.8'                                                                            10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     147.1'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                         7.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2     30” TYPE “F” CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD PLAN ST-10.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6                                                                 17                                          3                                                                                                                                      3     CONCRETE SIDEWALK PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD PLAN ST-12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               20.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2 STORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                         WINDSOR (11420 S)                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. "NO PARKING"                 4     WHITE CROSSWALK MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS
                              JORDAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WINDSOR MILL TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OFFICE                                                                        SIGN TO REMAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 43
                                                                                                                                                                                42.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. SANITARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HANDICAP ACCESS RAMP W/ DETECTABLE WARNING SURFACE PER DRAPER CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.1                                                                                                                                                                              BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                         WOOD WAY 19                                                    24                                                                                     855 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                     2                                                                                                                                       SEWER EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PLANS ST-04 AND ST-05.
                                                                                                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                                             880 W                                              24                                                                                                                                                             11420 S                                                                                                                                                                                              11418 S 820 W
                                                                                                                                            11420 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COMMERCIAL DRIVE APPROACH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD PLAN ST-07, ST-08,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0'




                                                                                                                                                       R3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST-09.
                                                                                                   11438 S




                                                                                                                                                            5.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
                                                                       15                                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14                                                                                                                                                                          CONNECT TO EXISTING SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                                13.1'                                                                      7.1'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOT LINE                                            (TYP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1S
                                                                                                                                             25                                                                                            EXISTING WETLAND AREA                                                                    11                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (TYP)                                                                                   25.2'                               8     STOP SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (DO NOT DISTURB)                                                                     (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9     30” REVERSE PAN CURB AND GUTTER PER DETAIL 6/C-500.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21
                                                                                    11442 S




                                                                                                                                         MILLH




                                                               16                                             10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCRETE PAVEMENT: 6" THICK CONCRETE W/ 6" UNTREATED BASE AND PROPERLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11450 SOUTH 820 WEST
                                                                                                             (TYP)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PREPARED SUB-BASE PER DETAIL 7/C-500.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                        12                  19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5                                                                                                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                     11        4" WIDE SOLID WHITE PAVEMENT MARKING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                            LANE




                                                                                                                           7.0'                                                      3                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DRAPER UTAH
                                                                                                       11446 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THAT DRIVEWAY DOES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12        CONCRETE STAIRS PER DETAIL 8/C-500.
                                                                                                                                               OUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOT STRAIGHTEN OUT                                                       4
                                                                          17                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                     19                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                24                                                                                                                                        29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OR IMPACT ADA RAMP.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13        DUMPSTER PER DETAILS 9, 10, 11 AND 14/C-500.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 48.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 114
                LAUNCH TRENCH PER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                         26                    27                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PAINTED ADA SYMBOL AND ASSOCIATED HATCHING PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                  (880 W)




                     DETAIL 12/C-500.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28                                                                                                       24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9                                                                                                                                            PLANS.
             (REQUIRED BY SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30                                                                7.0'                                                                                                                                                                  11
            COUNTY FLOOD CONTROL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        88.7'                                                                                                                                          3                                            17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          114
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2                                                                                                                                                                                       (TYP)                                                                                 15        "HANDICAP PARKING" SIGN PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           51 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                      18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          51.9'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   856 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16        12" WIDE SOLID WHITE STOP BAR PER M.U.T.C.D. STANDARD PLANS.
                                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24.0'                                                        EXIST. "NO PARKING"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          X
                   EXIST. ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                         872 W           868 W                                                                                                                                 23                                              5                                                                                19                                                                                                                                                 SIGN TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R28.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30" CONCRETE STANDARD CURB AND GUTTER PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD PLAN
                   TRAIL TO REMAIN                                                                                                                             .0'                                        8                                                                             862 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11                                        1                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                           R28                                                                                                                                                                                    854 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9                                                                                   ST-10.
                                                                                                         11452 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0'




                                                                            18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.5' 6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRANSITION BETWEEN COLLECTION CURB AND GUTTER AND REVERSE PAN CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7.0'




                                                                                                                                                                            5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (TYP)                                                                                                                                                                           R1                                                   AND GUTTER.
                                                                                                                                                            880 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24.0'
                                                                                                                                  7.0'                                                               16                                                                                                                                                                                                         4               11455 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2                                                                                                                   16                              '                                   19        RETAINING WALL. SEE GRADING PLAN FOR ELEVATION INFORMATION.
                                                                                                                 11458 S




                                                                                                                                                           11445 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RIVER FLOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25.0'




                                                                                                                                               5                                                     4                                                                                                                                            24                   3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INSTALL 6' HIGH SOLID DIVIDER ON TOP OF RETAINING WALL. SEE ARCHITECTURAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114
                                                                               19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18                                                                                                                                  20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.1'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIN WAY
                                                                                                                                                                            5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANS FOR DETAILS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LANE (11445 S)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     59 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .0'
                                                                                                                                                               R2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.0' 2.5'




                                                                                                                                                                  8.0                                                                                                                                                     3                                            16                                     R28                                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                                                         SAWCUT AND PATCH EXISTING ASPHALT PAVEMENT FOR UTILITY INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                                                                     '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8.1  ' 4.0                                           9                                                                                                     21        CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY AND MATCH EXISTING PAVEMENT SECTION. RESTORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DSO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            114
                                                                                                                  10                                       4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R13.0'                                                         OF ASPHALT CONCRETE IN TRENCH PER DRAPER CITY STANDARD DETAIL ST-15.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                          23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7.0'




                                                                                                                 (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22        VISITOR PARKING AREA FOR RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NO. 17055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                      EXIST. FLOODZONE                                                                                                                                                          873 W            869 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10                 863 W            859 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23        30-FOOT SIGHT TRIANGLE.
                      AE (HATCHED)                                                                                                                2                             20.0'
                                                                                                                                    11                                                                                                                 (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       851 W                849 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (850
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "NO PARKING - FIRE LANE" SIGN WITH RED LETTERS ON A WHITE REFLECTIVE                                                                DATE: 09 SEPTEMBER 2019




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.0'
                                                                                                                                   (TYP)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24        BACKGROUND COMPLYING WITH FIGURE D103.6 PER DETAIL 16/C-500. COORDINATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W)                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. "NO PARKING"
                                                                                                                                                                                  3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIGN TO REMAIN                                                                WITH FIRE CODE OFFICIAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                               22          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                20                 21                                                                                                                                                                                               3                             30.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25        BRICK PAVERS. SEE LANDSCAPE PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      60.0
                             CONNECT TO EXIST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22                 23                                                                                                  25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NO. DATE            REVISION           BY
                                ASPHALT TRAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24                                                                          42.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1   06/25/19 RFI #2                  TJM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                                                                        3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4                                                                                                                                                                                                      RESIDENTIAL SITE SUMMARY TABLE                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          06/25/19 RFI #3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11/02/20 CITY REDLINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TJM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TJM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16                                                                                                                                                                                                                DESCRIPTION                  AREA (SF)                    PERCENTAGE                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                                                                                             REMOVE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PAVEMENT                            58,676                         36%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RE-LOCATE EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10.0' 5.0'




                                                                                     DRAPER CITY RIGHT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "NO PARKING" SIGN                                                                                                                                                   42,110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF                                                               26%
                                                                                     WAY TO BE ABANDONED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           870 W                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .0'                                                                                                                                                                                                      LANDSCAPING                          63562                         38%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11475 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               164,348
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100%                                                                                                 SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WINDSOR MIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.773 ACRES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L DR (11475 S)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           45.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                840 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REMOVE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RE-LOCATE EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11475 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COMMERCIAL SITE SUMMARY TABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30.3'




            RESIDENTIAL PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. STREET                                                                                                                            COMMERCIAL BUILDING
                                                          COMMERCIAL PARKING                                                                                                                                                                     LIGHT TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                 "NO PARKING" SIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AREA (SF)
                DATA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIGN TO REMAIN                               DESCRIPTION                                        PERCENTAGE                                   DATA TABLE
                                                             DATA TABLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAVEMENT                             23,504                     53%                          FOOTPRINT AREA                       7,907 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHEET NUMBER:
         GARAGE STALLS                         60       STANDARD STALLS                           58
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROOF                                   7,907                    18%
         PERSONAL DRIVEWAY STALLS              60       ADA - ACCESSIBLE STALLS                   3                                                                                                                                                                                    SIGN TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LIGHT TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LANDSCAPING                          12,831                     29%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AREA PER FLOOR                       7,907 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30                  0         15        30                                60                                            C-100
         COMMUNAL VISITOR STALLS                8       TOTAL STALLS                              61                                                                                                                                                                     EXIST. STOP                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. STOP                                                                                                                                   NUMBER OF FLOORS                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SIGN TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIGN TO REMAIN                                                                      44,242
         TOTAL STALLS                          128      REQUIRED STALLS                           61                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL SITE                                                   100%                            GROSS SF (ALL FLOORS)                15,814 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.016 ACRES                                                                                                                                              ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.                                                                                CIVIL
     EXHIBIT F
RETAINING WALL PLAN
           BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTES
EAST QUARTER CORNER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1.     ALL WORK TO COMPLY WITH THE GOVERNING AGENCY'S STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
SECTION 23, T3S, R1W
SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                                                     FINISH GRADE @                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE:1'=10'
                                                                                                                                                   TOP OF WALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.     ALL IMPROVEMENTS MUST COMPLY WITH ADA STANDARDS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
(FOUND BRASS CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.     SEE LANDSCAPE/ARCHITECTURAL PLANS FOR CONCRETE MATERIAL, COLOR, FINISH, AND




                                                                                                                          6"
ELEVATION = 4401.32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE:1'=10'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCORE PATTERNS THROUGHOUT SITE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FG                       FG                          FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 47.10                    51.48                       55.60                                   4.     ALL PAVEMENT MARKINGS SHALL CONFORM TO THE LATEST EDITION OF THE M.U.T.C.D.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FG                    FG
                       CALL BLUESTAKES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOW                  TOW                56.38    TOW          60.00                     5.     ALL SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS DISTURBED BY CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE RESTORED OR
               R       @ 811 AT LEAST 48 HOURS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     55.84    13.24'        55.89 27.33'                55.93                                          REPLACED, INCLUDING TREES AND DECORATIVE SHRUBS, SOD, FENCES, WALLS AND




                                                                                                                          9'-0" MAX
                       PRIOR TO THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FG                                                                              STRUCTURES, WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE SPECIFICALLY SHOWN ON THE CONTRACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                56.10                          TOW                   TOW                             DOCUMENTS.
                       COMMENCEMENT OF ANY
Know what's below.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FG                   FG                              FG                                                                                                                                       62.50          61.41        29.25'   60.33
   Callbefore you dig. CONSTRUCTION.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             42.64                43.14         10.16'            44.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.     NOTIFY ENGINEER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN DESIGN OR STAKING BEFORE PLACING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.99'                                                                CONCRETE OR ASPHALT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43.20                                                                                                                                                                                      50.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOW                TOW/FG                           TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 44.18 8.50'          44.35           48.46      48.72                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.     THE CONTRACTOR IS TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE ALL EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES,
                                                                                            FINISH GRADE @
                                                                                               TOE OF WALL                                                                                                                                             TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43.22             15.09'                       8.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.83'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   56.50        56.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               62.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND SIGNS, ETC. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THESE PLANS.                                         Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FG                              FG                                                                                                                                        TOW                                                                                                                                                                 Interior Design




                                                                                                                          1'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48.76                           49.04

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOW                        TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        48.28                    48.54                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Construction Management
                                                                                                                                           *SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                           DESIGN INFORMATION (BY OTHERS).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ph: 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fax: 801.269.1425
                                                                                 1    CONCRETE RETAINING WALL SECTION (TYPICAL)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALE:NONE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The designsshownand describedhereinincluding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    all technicaldrawings,graphicrepresentation&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    models thereof, are proprietary& can not be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    copied,duplicated,or commerciallyexploitedin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    wholeor in partwithoutthesoleandexpresswritten
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    permission fromASWN+JSA Architects, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Thesedrawingsare availablefor limitedreviewand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    evaluation by clients, consultants,contractors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    government agencies, vendors, and office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    personnel only in accordance with this notice.

                                                               RETAINING WALL #4
                      TOW                                        (SEE SHEET PP-6)
                      30.89                      TOW
                                                                                           TOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALE:1'=10'
                                                 30.84
                                                                                           30.42                                                                                        TOW
                        FG                                                                                                                                                              31.30                                                TOW
                      30.56                        FG                                                                                                                                                                                        41.23                                       TOW
                                                                                              FG
                                                 29.44               113.09'                                                                                                                                                                                                             43.97
                                                                                           30.42                                                                                           FG
                                                                                                                                                                                        31.00                                                  FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33.02                                          FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              136.03'                    36.97                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOW             TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45.66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              56.50           62.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D=87°15'53"           FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R=49.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FG              FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     37.98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    L=74.63'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53.60           56.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FG                   FG                                 FG             14.76'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51.45                52.51        31.34'                53.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    47.36

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FG                                                                                                                                                                             TOW           FG     TOW          FG                          TOW      FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 39.00                                                                                                                                                                              52.12        51.43   53.98         53.84      35.26'      56.00         55.83




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TOW                           TOW                                      TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       57.24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WINDSOR MILL TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51.76                                                                60.93

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             99.64'                  TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                               D=25°11'12"                                                                                                                          47.62
                                                                                                      RETAINING WALL #2
                                                                                                                                                                                                               R=67.50'
                                                                                                        (SEE SHEET PP-5)                                                       TOW
                                                                                                                                                 TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                               L=29.67'                                                                                                               FG
                                                                              TOW                       TOW                                                                    32.66                                TOW                                                                                                          38.78
                                                                              28.23                     29.73                                    31.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34.33
                                                             TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                  FG
                                                             27.49                                                                                                                                                  11.02'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              X
                                                                                                                                                                               26.74                   FG
                                                                                         25.00                        26.00                                      26.00                              29.16 TOW
                                                                                                                                                                    FG
                                                                                                                                                                             33.88'
                                                                                            FG                                        FG                                            D=10°43'34"           34.40                                                                                               RETAINING WALL #1
                                                                             24.28                           D=6°50'41"                             D=6°50'41"                         R=42.99'                                                                                                              (SEE DRAWING PP-4)
                                                                               FG
                                                                                      D=108°55'05"
                                                                                                             R=622.61'                              R=622.61'                           L=8.05' FG                            TOW
                                                                                      R=27.50'
                                                                                                             L=74.38'                               L=74.38'                                  25.50                          35.32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11450 SOUTH 820 WEST
                                                                       FG             L=52.28'
                                                                     25.55                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                              D=53°21'32"     FG                                                                                                                                    48.57
                                                                        10.13'                                                                                                                   R=48.50'   28.23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAPER UTAH
                                                       TOW
                                                   27.58                                                                                                                                         L=45.17'                                             TOW                                                                             FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOW            36.70                                                                       40.73
                                                         TOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     36.64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
                                                       27.69          27.36                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 51.66
                                                                         FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.50'                            36.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FG
                                                                                                                      FG                                                                                                                20.30'         FG                                                                                                                                                       TOW                TOW
                                                                                                                                                    35.97'     FG                                                      32.03
                                                                                                                          28.39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             58.70              59.15            58.85
                                                                                                                                                               31.34                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RETAINING WALL #3                                             FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (SEE DRAWING PP-6)                         20.48'
                                                                                                                            TOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FG
                                                                                                                                                                 TOW
                                                                                                                      34.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53.33
                                                                                                                                                               34.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 140.78'                                                    57.78                  55.38'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51.26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FG                 TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FG                                           54.83             56.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            43.91                                    FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     55.38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D=32°49'22"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R=7.27'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      55.48        L=4.16'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    56.92

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     54.00                TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56.26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  56.62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT NO. 17055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        45.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             55.82
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D=18°59'10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATE: 09 SEPTEMBER 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           52.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R=98.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D=89°46'31"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     49.41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  21.04'     FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L=32.65'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R=21.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L=32.90'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NO. DATE            REVISION           BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1   06/25/19 RFI #2                  TJM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2   06/25/19 RFI #3                  TJM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3   11/02/20 CITY REDLINES           TJM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOR REVIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RETAINING WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE                                                       ISOLATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30                     0               15    30   60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C-101

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CIVIL
   EXHIBIT G
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                      7                                                          PLANT SCHEDULE EXCLUDING STREET TREES AT PARK STRIP OF 820 WEST STREET AND WINDSOR MILL DRIVE, SEE SHEET L115                                                                   PLANTING NOTES




        MATCH LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR BECOMING
                                                                                                                                                   KEY        SYM           QTY    BOTANICAL NAME                             COMMON NAME                              SIZE     COND.   REMARKS
                                                                                                                                         H
                                                                                                                                             Y                                                                                                                                                                                   AWARE OF ALL RELATED EXISTING CONDITIONS, UTILITIES,




                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIPES, AND STRUCTURES, ETC. PRIOR TO BIDDING AND
7 13                                            10                                                                                               TREES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONSTRUCTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
                                                                                                                                                  ACQ                        2     ACER CAMPESTRE 'QUEEN ELIZABETH'           QUEEN ELIZABETH HEDGE MAPLE            2 " CAL.   B&B                                              CONTACTING ALL UTILITY COMPANIES FOR FIELD LOCATION
                                                                                                               4 - GTI                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF ALL UNDERGROUND UTILITY LINES, INCLUDING DEPTHS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIOR TO ANY EXCAVATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3. CONTRACTOR SHALL TAKE SOLE RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY
                                                                                                                                                   APE                      12     ACER PLATANOIDES 'EMERALD QUEEN'           EMERALD QUEEN MAPLE                    2 " CAL.   B&B                                              AND ALL COST OR OTHER LIABILITIES INCURRED DUE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DAMAGE OF SAID UTILITIES/ STRUCTURES/ETC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. IF CONFLICTS ARISE BETWEEN SIZE OF AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENCOUNTERED ON SITE AND PLANS, CONTRACTOR IS
                                                                                                                                                   JSR                       9     JUNIPERUS SCOPULORUM                       ROCKY MOUNTAIN jUNIPER                  7' HT.    B&B                                              REQUIRED TO CONTACT OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE FOR
                                                                                  8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RESOLUTION. FAILURE TO MAKE SUCH CONFLICTS KNOWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO THE OWNER'S REPRESENTATIVE WILL RESULT IN
    D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Architecture




                     D
                                                                                                                                                   MIM                      18     MALUS 'INDIAN MAGIC'                       INDIAN MAGIC CRABAPPLE                 2" CAL.    B&B                                              CONTRACTORS LIABILITY TO RELOCATE THE MATERIALS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5. IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO FURNISH ALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANT MATERIALS FREE OF PESTS OR PLANT DISEASES AND       Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HAVE NATURAL FULL SHAPES.                                 Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                   MSS                      13     MALUS 'SPRING SNOW'                        SPRING SNOW CRABAPPLE                  2" CAL.    B&B                                              6. PRE-SELECTED OR "TAGGED" MATERIAL MUST BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INSPECTED BY THE CONTRACTOR AND CERTIFIED PEST AND        Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DISEASE FREE, IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S OBLIGATION TO        Construction Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAINTAIN AND WARRANTY ALL PLANT MATERIALS PER THE
                                                                                                                                                   PNI                      10     PINUS NIGRA                                AUSTRIAN PINE                           8' HT.    B&B                                              SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7. ALL PLANTS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO OWNER'S APPROVAL                               5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ph: 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8. PROVIDE MATCHING SIZES AND FORMS FOR EACH
                                                                                                                                                   PSY                       2     PINUS SYLVESTRIS                           SCOTCH PINE                             8' HT.    B&B                                                                                                                                           Fax: 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPECIES OF TREES.                                                                          www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9. CONTRACTOR TO REMOVE TREE STAKES AT END OF




                                                                                                               820 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUARANTEE PERIOD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The designs shown and described herein including
                                                                                                                                                   PAC                       3     PLATANUS ACERIFOLIA 'BLOODGOOD'            BLOODGOOD LONDON PLANE TREE            2" CAL.    B&B                                              10. CONTRACTOR TO PRUNE TREES AS DIRECTED BY              all technical drawings, graphic representation &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT FOR PROPER SHAPING OF TREES.          models thereof, are proprietary & can not be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11. REMOVE ALL TAGS, TIES AND FLAGGING FROM ALL           copied, duplicated, or commercially exploited in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANT MATERIAL.                                           whole or in part without the sole and express written
                                                                                                                                                   PSC                       2     PRUNUS SARGENTII 'COLUMNARIS'              COLUMNAR SARGENT CHERRY                2" CAL.    B&B                                                                                                        permission from ASWN+JSA Architects, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12. MULCH: AFTER COMPLETION OF ALL PLANTING, ALL
                                                                        OFFICE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRRIGATED NON-GRASS AREAS SHALL BE COVERED WITH A         These drawings are available for limited review and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           evaluation by clients, consultants, contractors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MINIMUM LAYER OF FOUR (4) INCHES OF MULCH.
                                                                       BUILDING                                                                    PVC                       5     PRUNUS VIRGINIANA 'CANADA RED'             CANADA RED CHOKECHERRY                 2" CAL.    B&B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NON-POROUS MATERIAL SHALL NOT BE PLACED UNDER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           government agencies, vendors, and office
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           personnel only in accordance with this notice.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MULCH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13. ALL LAWN/TURF AREAS TO RECEIVE 4" OF TOPSOIL PRIOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO LAYING SOD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                  QMA                        9     QUERCUS MACROCARPA                         BURR OAK                               2 " CAL.   B&B                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ENSED
                                                                                                 WM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CURTIS R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TANNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NO. 108779




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIC
                                                                                           IRR
                                                                                                          9                                        TCG                       3     TILIA CORDATA 'GREENSPIRE'                 GREENSPIRE LINDEN                      2 " CAL.   B&B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KEYED NOTES                                                          AT E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           of U T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AH



                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                   ZSG                      25     ZELKOVA SERRATA 'GREEN VASE'               GREEN VASE ZELKOVA                     2 " CAL.   B&B                                               1 DRAPER CITY TRAIL EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1 AUGUST 2019
                                                                                                                                                 SHRUBS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2 20' SEWER EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                   BTC                      72     BERBERIS THUNBERGII 'RUBY CAROUSEL'        RUBY CAROUSEL BARBERRY                 3 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3 EXISTING TRAIL HEAD PARKING
                                                                                                                                                  BGM                       15     BUXUS X 'GREEN MOUNTAIN'                   GREEN MOUNTAIN BOXWOOD                 5 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                   CCB                      93     CARYOPTERIS X CLANDONENSIS 'BLUE MIST'     BLUE MIST SPIREA                       3 GAL.     CONT.                                             4 PEDESTRIAN ACCESS TO TRAIL
                                                                                                                                                   CSK                      29     CORNUS SERICEA 'KELSEYI'                   KELSEY DWARF DOGWOOD                   3 GAL.     CONT.                                             5 GUEST PARKING
4                                                                                                                                                  ENA                      14     ERICAMERIA NAUSEOUSUS                      RUBBER RABBITBRUSH                     2 GAL.     CONT.                                             6 FIRE HYDRANT, TYPICAL OF (2), SEE CIVIL
                                                                                                                                                   JCS                       2     JUNIPERUS CHINENSIS VAR. SARGENTII         SARGENT'S JUNIPER                      5 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                              2 - GTI                                                                                                                                                                                                             7 RETAINING WALL, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                   JSB                      21     JUNIPERUS SABINA 'BUFFALO'                 BUFFALO JUNIPER                        5 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                              1 - MSS                                                                                                                                                                                                             8 DECK
                                         7 13                                                                                                     MAC                       47     MAHONIA AQUAFOLIUM 'COMPACTA'              COMPACT OREGON GRAPE                   5 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                  NGD                       56     NANDINA DOMESTICA 'GULFSTREAM'             GULFSTREAM HEAVENLY BAMBOO             3 GAL.     CONT.                                             9 WATER METER AND VAULT, SEE CIVIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WINDSOR MILL TOWNHOMES
    3
                                                                           7                                                                       PON                      13     PHYSOCARPUS OPULUS 'NANUS'                 DWARF NINEBARK                         5 GAL.     CONT.                                            10 CONCRETE PLANTER EDGE, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                   PFA                      30     POTENTILLA FRUITICOSA 'ABBOTSWOOD'         ABBOTSWOOD POTENTILLA                  3 GAL.     CONT.                                            11 CONCRETE PAD FOR IRRIGATION BACKFLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PREVENTER
                                                                                                                                                   PFJ                      41     POTENTILLA FRUITICOSA 'JACKMANII'          JACKMAN POTENTILLA                     3 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                   PFR                      25     POTENTILLA FRUITICOSA 'RED ACE'            RED ACE POTENTILLA                     3 GAL.     CONT.                                            12 4" THICK CONCRETE AT PARK STRIP
                                                                                                                                                   PCI                      13     PRUNUS X CISTENA                           PURPLE LEAF SANDCHERRY                 5 GAL.     CONT.                                            13 INSTALL 42" HIGH GUARDRAIL AT RETAINING WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11450 SOUTH 820 WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALONG WEST PROPERTY LINE OF COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                   PLO                      22     PRUNUS LAUROCERASUS ' OTTO LUYKEN'         OTTO LUYKEN LAUREL                     5 GAL.     CONT.                                                 PROPERTY. GUARD RAIL TO EXTEND ALONG WALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAPER UTAH
                                                                                                                                                  RAG                       33     RHUS AROMATICA 'GROW LOW'                  GROW LOW FRAGRANT SUMAC                5 GAL.     CONT.                                                 WHERE WALL HEIGHT EXCEEDS 30". WALL HEIGHTS LESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAN 30" NEED NO GUARDRAIL.
                                                                                                                                                  RGM                       99     RIBIES ALPINUM 'GREEN MOUND'               GREEN MOUND ALPINE CURRENT             3 GAL.     CONT.                                                 SEE DETAIL 9/L113.
                           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                   RKO                      63     ROSA 'KNOCK OUT'                           KNOCK OUT ROSE                         3 GAL.     CONT.   WHITE OR CREAM COLOR
                                                           3                                                                                       SBA                      65     SPIREA BUMALDA 'ANTHONY WATERER'           ANTHONY WATERER SPIREA                 3 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                   SJN                      92     SPIREA JAPONICA 'NEON FLASH'               NEON FLASH SPIREA                      3 GAL.     CONT.
                                                          11
                                                                                                                                                   SPA                       4     SYRINGA PATULA 'MISS KIM'                  MISS KIM LILAC                         5 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                   TMD                      22     TAXUS MEDIA 'DARK GREEN SPREADER'          DARK GREEN SPREADER YEW                5 GAL.     CONT.
                                1                                                                                                                ORNAMENTAL GRASSES
                                                                                                                                                   CAK                      81     CALAMAGROSTIS X ACUTIFLO. 'KARL FOERSTER' KARL FOERSTER GRASS                     1 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                   HSE                      108    HELICTOTRICHON SEMPERVIRENS                BLUE OAT GRASS                         1 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                      H




                                                                                          1 - MSS                                                PERENNIALS

                                                                                          2 - GTI                                                 BCO                       27     BERGENIA CORDIFOLIA                        HEARTLEAF CORDIFOLIA                   1 GAL.     CONT.
                                    10
                                                                                                                                                  GGB                       54     GAILLARDIA GRANDIFLORA 'BURGANDY'          BURGANDY BLANKET FLOWER                1 GAL.     CONT.
                                                                                                                                                 HEM.M                      106    HEMEROCALLIS 'MIRACLE MAID'                MIRACLE MAID DAYLILY                   1 GAL.     CONT.

                                                                                                                                                  HEM.S                     171    HEMEROCALLIS 'STELLA DE ORO'               STELLA DE ORO DAYLILY                  1 GAL.     CONT.                                                                                                      PROJECT NO.     17055
                                                                                                                                                   HOS                      12     HOSTA SP.                                  PLANTAIN LILY                          1 GAL.     CONT.   APPROX EQUAL QTY.     'HIGH SOCIETY'                                                               DATE:    1 AUGUST 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OF EACH VARIETY TO    'ROYAL STANDARD'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INCLUDE:              'STAINED GLASS'                                                              REVISIONS:
                     IRR


                           WM
                                                                                                                                                                    ROCK MULCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1          8 APRIL 2019
                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL A 4-INCH MIN. LAYER OF 2" GRAVEL MULCH OVER WEED BARRIER FABRIC IN PLANTING BEDS INDICATED WITH HATCH PATTERN SHOWN. ROCK MULCH TO BE FROM
                                                1 - GTI                                                                                                             LOCAL QUARRY. PROVIDE SAMPLE TO LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3          2 NOVEMBER 2020
                                                1 - MSS                                                                                                             SHREDDED BARK MULCH
                                                                                                                                                                    INSTALL A 4-INCH MIN. LAYER OF SHREDDED BARK MULCH OVER WEED BARRIER FABRIC. SHREDDED BARK MULCH TO BE NATURAL COLOR. PROVIDE SAMPLE TO LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                    ARCHITECT FOR APPROVAL PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
                                          9
                                                           MA




                                                                                                                                                                    TURF (SOD)
                                                                                                                                                                    LAWN SOD TO BE 'BIOTURF' AS GROWN BY BIOGRASS SOD FARMS, SANDY, UTAH, TELEPHONE: 801.562.9090, www.BIOGRASS.COM, OR EQUIVALENT APPROVED BY
                                                               TCH




                                                                                                                                                                    LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT.                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                    FIELD GRASSES AND WILDFLOWERS                                                                                                                                                                                          PLANTING
                                                                LINE




                                                                                                                                                                    AREAS TO BE PLANTED WITH FIELD GRASSES AND WILDFLOWERS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L 111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                      0   10                20   40   NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE
                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7 13                                                10




                                                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D

                                                                         12                                    11             10                                   9
                                 14                                                                                                                                                8                                                                           D                                                                             Architecture




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                                                                                     Construction Management
                 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7                                                                                                                                                   Ph: 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fax: 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              www.thinkaec.com

                                                                                                                                             BENCH AT DECK, TYPICAL OF
                                                                                                                                             (2), SEE DETAIL 8/L113
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6                                                                                              The designs shown and described herein including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             all technical drawings, graphic representation &
                                      H Y
                                                                              10                                                             DECK AND PERGOLA, TYPICAL OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             models thereof, are proprietary & can not be




                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             copied, duplicated, or commercially exploited in

                                                                                                           WINDSOR WOOD WAY
                                                                                                                                             (2), SEE DETAIL 1/L114                                                                                                                                                                          whole or in part without the sole and express written

                                                                 6                     PAVERS AT WALKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             permission from ASWN+JSA Architects, Inc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             These drawings are available for limited review and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             evaluation by clients, consultants, contractors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             government agencies, vendors, and office

                       15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    personnel only in accordance with this notice.

                                                                                                                                                                                   7                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENSED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CURTIS R
     D   D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TANNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NO. 108779




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIC
                                                                                                                         2018                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AT E       AH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             of U T
                  16                                                                                                  DELINEATED
                                                                                                                      WETLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                               5

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 AUGUST 2019

             D

                       17
                                                                                                                                                                   29                                                                                      4
                                                                                               26            27                              28
                                                                                                                                                                                   30                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                                               6                                                                                    7 13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WINDSOR MILL TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                    H Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                            18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WIN
                                                                          D
                                                                              Y
                                                                              H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11450 SOUTH 820 WEST
                                                MILLHOUSE LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRAPER UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                            19                                                                                    RIVER FLOW LANE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AY
                                                                                         3                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1

10


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
4                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT NO.     17055
                                                                                  20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DATE:    1 AUGUST 2019
                                                                                                    21                             22       23                                         24                 25                                                                    IRR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS:
1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1          8 APRIL 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 - GTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3          2 NOVEMBER 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 - MSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLANTING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 - MSS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLAN
                                                                                                                                                  WINDSOR MIL
                                                                     3                                                                                                      L DRIVE                                                 9 - ZSM                                                                                                  SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           L 112
                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0    10   20        40    NORTH
 EXHIBIT H
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                MECHANICAL
                                                                                SCREEN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salt Lake City, Ut 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ph. 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 fax 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                The designs shown and described herein
                                                                                                                                                                                                                including all t echnical drawings, graphic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                represent at ion & models t hereof, are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                propriet ary & can not be copied, duplicat ed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                or commercially exploit ed in whole or in part
                                                                                                                                                                                                                wit hout t he sole and express writ t en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                permission from THINK Archit ect ure, inc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                These drawings are available for limit ed review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and evaluat ion by client s, consult ant s,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                cont ract ors, government agencies, vendors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                and office personnel only in accordance wit h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                t his not ice.




                                                                                   EAST ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD                                      1
                                                                                    3/32" = 1'-0"                                                            D201




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WINDSOR MILL - RETAIL & OFFICE
                                                                                                                     EAST ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Windsor Mill Townhomes

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                  MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                           MASONRY                            484                 26.8


                                                                                                           CEMENT BOARD PANELS               1,324                73.2


                                                                                                                             TOTALS          1,808             100.0


                                                                                                                 SOUTH ELEVATION 2 - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS

                                                                                                                  MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                           MASONRY                            83.5                100


                                                                                                           CEMENT BOARD PANELS                 0                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT NO. 17055




                                                                                                                                                                          06/21/2019 - BID SET - RFI RESPONSE
                                                                                                                             TOTALS           83.5             100.0                                            DATE: 06/21/2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                REVISIONS:
                        SOUTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD            2                                       SOUTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS
11/18/2020 3:58:34 PM




                        3/32" = 1'-0"                                    D201
                                                                                                                  MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                           MASONRY                            463                 48.6                                          SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                             SOUTH ELEVATION 2 - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD                3     CEMENT BOARD PANELS                490                 51.4                                          SHEET NUMBER:
                                              3/32" = 1'-0"                                         D201
                                                                                                                             TOTALS           953              100.0                                                          D201
                                               MECHANICAL
                                               SCREEN




                                                                                                                                                                               Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                               Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                               Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                               Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                               Construction
                                                                                                                                                                               Management
                                                                                                                                                                                        5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Salt Lake City, Ut 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ph. 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                fax 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                            www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                               The designs shown and described herein
                                                                                                                                                                               including all t echnical drawings, graphic
                                                                                                                                                                               represent at ion & models t hereof, are
                                                                                                                                                                               propriet ary & can not be copied, duplicat ed,
                                                                                                                                                                               or commercially exploit ed in whole or in part
                                                                                                                                                                               wit hout t he sole and express writ t en
                                                                                                                                                                               permission from THINK Archit ect ure, inc.

                                                                                                                                                                               These drawings are available for limit ed review
                                                                                                                                                                               and evaluat ion by client s, consult ant s,
                                                                                                                                                                               cont ract ors, government agencies, vendors,
                                                                                                                                                                               and office personnel only in accordance wit h
                                                                                                                                                                               t his not ice.




                        WEST ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD       1
                        3/32" = 1'-0"                              D202
                                                                                    WEST ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS




                                                                                                                                                                                                          WINDSOR MILL - RETAIL & OFFICE
                                                                                                                                                                                Windsor Mill Townhomes
                                                                                 MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                          MASONRY                           1,040              45.4


                                                                          CEMENT BOARD PANELS               1,253              54.6

                        NORTH ELEVATION 2 - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD    4                       TOTALS          2,293             100.0
                        3/32" = 1'-0"                              D202
                                                                                NORTH ELEVATION 2 - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS

                                                                                 MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL

                                                                          MASONRY                            154               39.3


                                                                          CEMENT BOARD PANELS                238               60.7


                                                                                            TOTALS           392              100.0                                            PROJECT NO. 17055




                                                                                                                                         06/21/2019 - BID SET - RFI RESPONSE
                                                                                                                                                                               DATE: 06/21/2019
                                                                                 NORTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE OFFS
                                                                                                                                                                               REVISIONS:

                                                                                 MATERIAL            SURFACE AREA (SQ FT)   % OF TOTAL
11/18/2020 3:58:50 PM




                                                                          MASONRY                            548               35.8

                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:
                                                                          CEMENT BOARD PANELS                981               64.2                                            EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS


                                                                                            TOTALS          1,529             100.0                                            SHEET NUMBER:


                        NORTH ELEVATION - MATERIAL TAKE-OFF SD      3                                                                                                                        D202
                        3/32" = 1'-0"                              D202
                                                                                                                                                                                          MATERIAL TAKE OFF LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                   HATCH PATTERN           DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                                           BRICK VENEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEE SPECIFICATIONS FOR TYPE, LAY, AND FINISH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED BRICK TO BE INTERSTATE BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                  COLOR TO BE "AUGUSTA"


                                                                                                                                                                                           BOARD AND BATT SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                 FIBER CEMENT AS PER SPECIFICATIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                           LAP SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIBER CEMENT 6" EXPOSURE AS PER SPECIFICATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Architecture
                                              1   2                    3                         4       A                                              B                                  ROOF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE SPECIFICATIONS FOR TYPE, PATTERN AND COLOR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Construction Management
                                                                                                                                                                                           NOTE: REFER TO MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS DOCUMENT FOR DETAILED
                                                                                                                                                                                           INFORMATION REGARDING EACH FINISH MATERIAL                                            5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salt Lake City, Ut 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ph. 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              fax 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The designs shown and described herein
                                                                                                                                                                                            FINISHES BREAKDOWN - FRONT ELEVATION                                 including all technical drawings, graphic
                       UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                                                        representation & models thereof, are
                       119'-0"                                                                                                                                                         MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL   proprietary & can not be copied, duplicated,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 or commercially exploited in whole or in part
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 without the sole and express written permission
                                                                                                                                                                         BRICK                                                 578                     51%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 from THINK Architecture, inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 These drawings are available for limited review
                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    455                     40%       and evaluation by clients, consultants,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 contractors, government agencies, vendors,
                       LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                              FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              104                     9%        and office personnel only in accordance with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 this notice.
                       110'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                 1137                   100%




                       LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                              FINISHES BREAKDOWN - LEFT ELEVATION
                       100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                       MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                         BRICK                                                 217                     25%

                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    281                     32%

                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              371                     40%

                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                 869                    100%




                                                      MATERIAL TAKE OFF - FRONT ELEVATION    1               MATERIAL TAKE OFF - LEFT SIDE ELEVATION         2                               FINISHES BREAKDOWN - RIGHT ELEVATION
                                                      1/8" = 1'-0"                          A204             1/8" = 1'-0"                                   A204
                                                                                                                                                                                       MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                         BRICK                                                 539                     47%

                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    451                     39%

                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              166                     14%

                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                 1156                   100%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WINDSOR MILL - THOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                             FINISHES BREAKDOWN - REAR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                       MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                         BRICK                                                 469                     52%

                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    165                     18%
                                              4   3                    2                         1   B                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UTAH 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3-PLEX BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              275                     30%

                                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL                 909                    100%




                       CHIMNEY LEVEL
                       123'-8"


                       UPPER ROOF BEARING
                       119'-0"




                       LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                       110'-0"




                       LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                       100'-0"




                                                      MATERIAL TAKE OFF - REAR ELEVATION     3               MATERIAL TAKE OFF - RIGHT SIDE ELEVATION        4                                                                                                   PROJECT NO. 17055
                                                      1/8" = 1'-0"                          A204             1/8" = 1'-0"                                   A204
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE:   02/21/2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVISIONS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MATERIAL TAKE OFF
2/28/2019 9:26:53 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NUMBER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A204
Plot Date:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MATERIAL TAKE OFF LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                  HATCH PATTERN           DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRICK VENEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEE SPECIFICATIONS FOR TYPE, LAY, AND FINISH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED BRICK TO BE INTERSTATE BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLOR TO BE "AUGUSTA"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BOARD AND BATT SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIBER CEMENT AS PER SPECIFICATIONS



                                               10   9 8   7   6   CL                   5    4               3 2   1           A B C   D E F G                                      H J K                                  LAP SIDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FIBER CEMENT 6" EXPOSURE AS PER SPECIFICATIONS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEE SPECIFICATIONS FOR TYPE, PATTERN AND COLOR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Interior Design
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Landscape Architecture
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Land Planning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Construction Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOTE: REFER TO MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS DOCUMENT FOR DETAILED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INFORMATION REGARDING EACH FINISH MATERIAL                                                                                                                  5151 South 900 East, Suite 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Salt Lake City, Ut 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ph. 801.269.0055
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fax 801.269.1425
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               www.thinkaec.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The designs shown and described herein
                        UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                 FINISHES BREAKDOWN - FRONT ELEVATION                                                                                             including all technical drawings, graphic
                        119'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             representation & models thereof, are
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL                                                               proprietary & can not be copied, duplicated,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            or commercially exploited in whole or in part
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            without the sole and express written permission
                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRICK                                                 420                     51%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            from THINK Architecture, inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            These drawings are available for limited review
                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    154                     19%                                                                   and evaluation by clients, consultants,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            contractors, government agencies, vendors,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              255                     32%                                                                   and office personnel only in accordance with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            this notice.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL                 829                    100%
                        LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                        110'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FINISHES BREAKDOWN - LEFT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRICK                                                 201                     28%

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    281                     40%
                        LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                        100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                         FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              224                     32%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL                 706                    100%




                                                                       MATERIAL TAKE OFF - FRONT ELEVATION              1                    MATERIAL TAKE OFF - RIGHT ELEVATION            2                               FINISHES BREAKDOWN - RIGHT ELEVATION
                                                                       3/16" = 1'-0"                                   A203                  3/16" = 1'-0"                                 A203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRICK                                                 229                     26%

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    347                     40%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WINDSOR MILL - DUPLEX TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              300                     34%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL                 876                    100%




                                               1    2 3   4   5   CL                   6    7               8 9   10                                                                                                        FINISHES BREAKDOWN - REAR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                              K J H      F      D                                    B A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIAL                       SURFACE AREA (SQ. FT.)        % OF TOTAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRICK                                                 270                     40%

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, BOARD & BATEN SIDING                    220                     33%

                                                                                                                                                                                                        FIBER CEMENT, LAP SIDING                              182                     27%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11450 SOUTH 820 WEST DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL                 672                    100%




                       UPPER ROOF BEARING
                       119'-0"




                       LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                       110'-0"




                       LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                       100'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BIDDING PURPOSES ONLY - NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION - 02/05/2019
                                                                       MATERIAL TAKE OFF - REAR ELEVATION               3                    MATERIAL TAKE OFF - LEFT ELEVATION             4                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO. 17055
                                                                       3/16" = 1'-0"                                   A203                  3/16" = 1'-0"                                 A203
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATE:   02/05/2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATERIAL TAKE OFF
2/28/2019 9:31:34 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NUMBER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A203
Plot Date:
        EXHIBIT I
DEVIATION REQUEST LETTER
From: James Poloncic <jpoloncic@thinkaec.com>
Sent: Tuesday, February 12, 2019 6:15 AM
To: Dennis Workman <Dennis@draper.ut.us>
Subject: RE: Windsor Mill - Retain Wall-Guardrail exhibit

Dennis

We are close to 50% per side but, most likely 50% for the overall structure as allowed by Title 9, chapter
32, item 9-32-030, B Design, 3a1. Our main concern is using to much brick that the visual mass of the
material will create a “heavy” aesthetic. There is a lot of undulation in the facades. We felt that a
dominating material, such as brick, would detract hence, losing the desired look. So, with a mixture of
Fiber Cement textures (board-batten siding and lap siding) and brick, we feel that you will see a more
harmonizing collective.

The homes in the development to the south have a wide range of materials without the use of one
overriding finish such as brick. We were hoping to follow a similar guideline as allowed by item 9-32-
030, B Design 3c.

I have attached rendered elevations of the duplex and a perspective of the triplex for review in this
matter. Also, I enclosed photos of the homes to the south as a comparison.


Sincerely

Jim Poloncic
THINKarcitecture
                         UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                     UPPER ROOF BEARING
                         119'-0"                                                                                                                                                119'-0"




                         LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                         110'-0"                                                                                                                                                110'-0"
                         UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                     UPPER ROOF BEARING
                         119'-0"                                                                                                                                                119'-0"




                         LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                         100'-0"
                         LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                         110'-0"                                                                                                                                                110'-0"




                                                                                                                NORTH PRESENTATION                      1                                                                               SOUTH PRESENTATION                        2
                                                                                                                3/16" = 1'-0"                          D201                                                                             3/16" = 1'-0"                            D201
                         LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                         100'-0"                                                                                                                                                100'-0"




                                                                                                                                     North Elevation                                                                                                         South Elevation
                                                                                                                NORTH PRESENTATION                      1                                                                               SOUTH PRESENTATION                        2
                                                                                                                3/16" = 1'-0"                          D201                                                                             3/16" = 1'-0"                            D201




                         UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                     UPPER ROOF BEARING
                         119'-0"                                                                                                                                                119'-0"




                         LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                         110'-0"                                                                                                                                                110'-0"
                         UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                     UPPER ROOF BEARING
                         119'-0"                                                                                                                                                119'-0"




                         LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                         100'-0"
                         LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   100'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
                         110'-0"                                                                                                                                                110'-0"




                                                                                                                EAST PRESENTATION    East Elevation 3                                                                                   WEST PRESENTATION    West Elevation4
                                                                                                                3/16" = 1'-0"                          D201                                                                             3/16" = 1'-0"                            D201


                         LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                   LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
                         100'-0"                                                                                                                                                100'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                Windsor Mill - Two Plex Townhomes
                                                                                                                EAST PRESENTATION
                                                                                                                3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                       D201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WEST PRESENTATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D201




The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                                                     11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UT 84020                                                                                              D201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8-30-2018
Architecture, Inc.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                                Windsor Mill - Two Plex Townhomes
                                                                                                                        Roofing         Lap Siding            Board & Batt                             Window   Brick
The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                                                     11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UT 84020                                                                                      D201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E xterior materials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8-30-2018
Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                                           W i nd s o r M i ll - T wo P le x T ow nh o me s                                                                                                                             D201
                                                                                                                                                        Draper, Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30 Aug, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY. FINAL COLORS MAY VARY FROM ABOVE REPRESENTATION
CHIMNEY LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                           CHIMNEY LEVEL
123'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                 123'-8"




UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                      UPPER ROOF BEARING
119'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 119'-0"




CHIMNEY LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                           CHIMNEY LEVEL
123'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                 123'-8"
LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
110'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 110'-0"

UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                      UPPER ROOF BEARING
119'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 119'-0"




LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 100'-0"
LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
110'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 110'-0"



                                                                                                                                         NORTH PRESENTATION                               1                                                                   EAST PRESENTATION                          2
                                                                                                                                         3/16" = 1'-0"                                   D301                                                                 3/16" = 1'-0"                             D301




LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                    LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                 100'-0"




                                                                                                                                         NORTH PRESENTATION                   1
                                                                                                                                                                 North Elevation                                                                              EAST PRESENTATION   East Elevation         2
                                                                                                                                         3/16" = 1'-0"                                   D301                                                                 3/16" = 1'-0"                             D301




 CHIMNEY LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                            CHIMNEY LEVEL
 123'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                  123'-8"




 UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                       UPPER ROOF BEARING
 119'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  119'-0"




 CHIMNEY LEVEL                                                                                                                                                                                            CHIMNEY LEVEL
 123'-8"                                                                                                                                                                                                  123'-8"
 LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
 110'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  110'-0"

 UPPER ROOF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                       UPPER ROOF BEARING
 119'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  119'-0"




 LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
 100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  100'-0"
 LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 2 - FLOOR PLAN
 110'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  110'-0"


                                                                                                                         SOUTH PRESENTATION                                      3                                                                          WEST PRESENTATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  West Elevation 4
                                                                                                                                                                 South Elevation
                                                                                                                         3/16" = 1'-0"                                          D301                                                                        3/16" = 1'-0"                              D301




 LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                     LEVEL 1 - FLOOR PLAN
 100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                  100'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                 WINDSOR MILL - THOWNHOMES 3-PLEX BUILDING
                                                                                                                         SOUTH PRESENTATION                                      3                                                                          WEST PRESENTATION                            4
                                                                                                                         3/16" = 1'-0"                                          D301                                                                        3/16" = 1'-0"                              D301




  The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
  thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
  commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
                                                                                                                                                              11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UTAH 84020                                                                                        D301
  Architecture, Inc.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS

                                                                                                                 WINDSOR
                                                                                                                    Roofing MILL - THOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                             Lap Siding Board & Batt  3-PLEX BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                     Window   Brick
  The designs shown and described herein including all technical drawings, graphic representation & models
  thereof, are the copyrighted work of Think Architecture, Inc. and & cannot be copied, duplicated, or
                                                                                                                                                              11452 SOUTH 700 WEST DRAPER, UTAH 84020                                                                                      D301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E xterior materials


                                                                                                             W i nd s o r M i ll - T h re e P le x T ow nh o me s
  commercially exploited in whole or in part without the sole and express written permission from THINK
  Architecture, Inc.




                                                                                                                                                                  Draper, Utah                                                                                                              D301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30 Aug, 2018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY. FINAL COLORS MAY VARY FROM ABOVE REPRESENTATION
