                                       Development Review Committee
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                             Draper, UT 84020

                                              STAFF REPORT
                                              Febraury 18, 2020



To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: February 27, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared by: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      Offices on 7th Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development
         Agreement
         Application No.:    TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019, DA-938-2020
         Applicant:          Keaton Morton
         Project Location:   681 E. Pioneer Rd. and 12388 S. 700 E.
         Current Zoning:     RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
         Acreage:            0.99 acre (Approximately 43,124 ft2)
         Request:            To change the land use designation from Residential Medium Density to
                             Neighborhood Commercial, to change the zoning designation from RA2
                             (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN
                             (Neighborhood Commercial) and obtain a development agreement to
                             restrict allowed uses on the property and require certain architectural
                             standards.


SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
The subject property consists of two contiguous parcels located on the northwest quadrant of 700 East and
Pioneer Road. The applicant’s intent is to build a two-story building that would house a personal
instruction use on the main floor and an office use on the upper floor, both of which are permitted uses in
the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. The city has a policy that a proposed zone change shall
comply with the General Plan designation, which means the underlying land use designation needs to be
changed to Neighborhood Commercial.

In March of 2019, the Planning Commission heard a rezone request from a different applicant seeking the
CN zone, which, if successful, would have allowed the applicant to construct an outpatient facility for
addiction recovery. The Planning Commission forwarded a negative recommendation, and the
application was withdrawn. No final decision on that application was made by the City Council.




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                            App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request           1                   DA-938-2020
The Planning Commission heard Mr. Morton’s Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment requests at
the September 26, 2019 meeting and forwarded a negative recommendation to the City Council on a vote
of 3-2. The applicant has since come in with a Development Agreement (Agreement) application. All
three applications are now being brought back before the Planning Commission for additional review
prior to being forwarded to the City Council.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. Currently, the Land Use Map of the general plan designates the subject area as
Residential Medium Density, which contemplates up to four residential dwelling units per acre. The
requested land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial supports commercial land uses that target
local residents and neighborhoods—uses such as planned retail and office.

The requested zoning designation of CN is intended to promote a combination of retail and service
facilities which, in character and scale, meet day-to-day needs of nearby residents. Per Draper City
Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Table 9-11-2, the CN zone has a minimum establishment area of 1 acre,
unless the property has a land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial. In those instances, the
minimum area required to establish a CN zone is 10,000 square feet.

The RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum), R3 (Single-family Residential,
13,000 square foot lot minimum), and R4 (Single-family Residential, 10,000 square foot lot minimum)
zoning designations are identified by the General Plan as the preferred zoning classifications for the
Residential Medium Density land use designation. The General Plan identifies the CN zoning destination
as the preferred classification for the Neighborhood Commercial land use designation. Located to the
north of the property is the CS (Commercial Services) zone, to the east is the TC (Town Center) zone, to
the west is the RA2 zone, and to the south is the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot
minimum) zone.

The subject property abuts residential zoning on its west and south sides. There is a residential use on its
east side, namely Beehive Senior Living. A rezone request to CN in the midst of so much residential
must be given careful consideration. It could be argued that the Neighborhood Commercial land use and
CN zoning designations contemplate uses that are inappropriate for an area so dominated by residential
uses. On the other hand, Pioneer Road is classified as a minor collector street, as is 700 East south of
12300 South. These two streets are classified as such due to having heavier traffic volumes than does a
local road in a residential area. As such, the CN zoning designation and the applicant’s intent to construct
an office building limited to two stories in height (35-feet maximum) may be reasonable.

Development Agreement. The applicant is proposing an Agreement. This Agreement will do two things,
first it will restrict the property from being used as a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center. This is a use
that was previously proposed on the property and was not received favorably by the neighborhood. The
second thing the Agreement would do is require the proposed office building to comply with the
architectural standards found with the TC zone, with the exception of window transparency standards.
The Agreement would allow the building to include tinted or mirrored glass on the ground floor. These
architectural standards require a building with a minimum of 80% brick and additional architectural
detailing then is required in the CN zone. The Agreement would have a term of 20 years, with a possible
5 year extension.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and approval of a Zoning Map amendment is found in
Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC. This section sets forth the standard of review as follows:

        1. Map Amendments:



Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                               App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request            2                     DA-938-2020
           a.     Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  City’s General Plan;
           b.     Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                  development in the vicinity of the subject property;
           c.     Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                  overlay zone.
           d.     The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
                  and
           e.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
                  but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
                  schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
                  collection.

While there is no specific criteria for approval of an amendment to the Land Use Map, which has been
adopted as part of the Draper City’s General Plan, there is a purpose statement for what the General Plan
shall address as found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).

           B.     Purpose: The purpose of the general plan is to provide the city with a comprehensive,
           long range plan for its present and future needs regarding efficient and managed growth and
           development of land within the city. As outlined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-405 et
           seq., as amended, the general plan, and any amendments thereto, are intended to be an advisory
           guide for land use decisions within the city excepting those public uses in Utah Code Annotated
           section 10-9a-406, as amended

DCMC does not contain criteria for review, and potential approval, of an Agreement. It does, however
contain a list of items that are required to be part of an Agreement, as found in DCMC Section 9-5-
200(C). Below is a list of those required inclusions:

         C.      Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded with the
                 respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be binding on all
                 successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development agreement shall
                 contain, at a minimum, the following:
                  1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
                  2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including development
                      standards and the provision of public facilities.
                  3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
                  4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have for the
                      City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design standards,
                      dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails, amenities, or infrastructure
                      such as public rights-of-way or utilities.
                  5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
                  6. A description of the various City approvals required before the commencement of
                      construction and other procedures that will be required after approval of the
                      development agreement.
                  7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
                      agreement.
                  8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
                  9. The time limitation of the agreement.
                  10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and developer
                      or subdivider.




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                              App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request           3                     DA-938-2020
REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed its review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development Agreement submission. Comments, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Division Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and
Development Agreement submission. Comments, if any, from these divisions can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed its review of the Land Use Map
Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development Agreement submission. Comments, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Land Use
Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development Agreement submission. Comments from
this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Noticing for both the Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Development
Agreement has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the city and state codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, listed within
the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1. That the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper
            City General Plan.
         2. That the facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
            limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
            water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are adequate.
         3. The proposed amendment complies with the findings in Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC.
         4. The proposed amendment is supported by the purpose statement in DCMC Section 9-2-
            020(B).
         5. The proposed agreement complies with the criteria in DCMC Section 9-5-200(C).

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

         1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper
            City General Plan.
            a. Zoning categories that are contemplated for the Neighborhood Commercial land use area
                allow uses that are not compatible with existing development and could harm the
                interests of those living and working in the area.
         2. The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate
            for an area that is dominated by residential uses.
         3. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
            development in the vicinity of the subject property due to the additional types of uses that
            would be allowed.



Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                              App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request           4                     DA-938-2020
         4. The proposed amendment is not supported by the purpose statement found in DCMC Section
            9-2-020(B).
         5. The prohibition on use and additional architectural standards offered in the development
            agreement do not out way the concern of introducing a commercial use into a primarily
            residential section of Pioneer Road.


MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Map Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, as
requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-770-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated February 18, 2020.”

Sample Motion for Modified Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood
Commercial, as requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-770-2019, based on the findings
listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020 and as modified by the findings below:”

    1.    List any additional findings...

Sample Motion for Denial “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, as
requested by Keaton Morton, application February 18, 2020, based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated September 17, 2019.”


Zoning Map Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to CN, as requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-
771-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020.”

Sample Motion for Modified Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for a Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to CN, as requested by Keaton Morton, application
TEXTMAP-771-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020,” and as
modified by the following.”

    1. List any additional findings...

Sample Motion for Denial “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Zoning Map Amendment from RA2 to, as requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-771-
2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020.”


Development Agreement:
Sample Motion for Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Development Agreement, as requested by Keaton Morton, application DA-938-2020, based on the
findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020.”

Sample Motion for Modified Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for a Development Agreement, as requested by Keaton Morton, application DA-938-2020, based



Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                         App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       5                    DA-938-2020
on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:”

    1.    List any additional findings an conditions...

Sample Motion for Denial “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Development Agreement, as requested by Keaton Morton, application DA-938-2020, based on the
findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020.”




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                            App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request               6               DA-938-2020
                                                     EXHIBIT A

Engineering and Public Works Comments
In making an amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors:

    1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not limited
       to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage
       systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

         Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this
         property.

              a. Connectivity with these parcels is required to be through access to Pioneer Rd. or 700 East,
                 both minor collectors. Specific access locations will be evaluated with any site plan or
                 subdivision submittal. Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as
                 outlined in our Master Transportation Plan. A Traffic Impact Study may be required.

              b. Existing storm drainage facilities are not available adjacent to the subject property. Provisions
                 for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
                 application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements within the
                 Draper City Municipal Code.

              c. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision
                 application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities are
                 adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

              d. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision application will
                 require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service
                 for the proposed uses.

              e. The proposed commercial rezone will contribute to a higher traffic volume than the current
                 residential zoning. Traffic volume is dependent on the specific type of facility, thus a Traffic
                 Impact Study may be required with site plan application.

Planning Comments
The requested land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial and zoning designation of CN are fully
compatible with existing commercial activity in the area. CN is a low intensity, low impact commercial
zoning designation that accommodates uses that staff believes will have no adverse impact on either the
storage facility to the north or the senior living center to the east. On the west and south of the subject
property, there are long-existing residential uses that could potentially be impacted by commercial zoning
in such close proximity. As noted earlier in this report, one of the purposes of the CN zone is “to promote
a combination of retail and service facilities which, in scale and character, meet day-to-day needs of
nearby residents.” As such, the CN zone contemplates having residential uses nearby, and the allowed
uses in the zone have been selected to not only have low impact on its residential neighbors, but also to
help them meet some of their basic needs. The development agreement would prevent certain uses from
being introduced into the neighborhood that area residents do not want and would require a better
aesthetic looking building then required in the CN zone.




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                                 App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request              8                     DA-938-2020
                                              EXHIBIT B

                                              Aerial Map




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                    App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       9               DA-938-2020
                                               EXHIBIT C

                                              Land Use Map




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                      App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request        10               DA-938-2020
                                              EXHIBIT D

                                              Zoning Map




Offices on 7th Land Use Map, Zoning Map                    App. # TEXTMAP-770-2019, TEXTMAP-771-2019,
Amendment and Development Agreement Request       11              DA-938-2020
     EXHIBIT E

Development Agreement
                            MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                          FOR
                                     PIONEER VILLA




                                    December 17, 2019




Last Update Date 2/3/2020            Draper City Contract #   Page 1 of 32
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


Steve Hutchings
X-Development, LLC
9537 South 700 East
Sandy, Utah 84070

                            MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                          FOR
                                     PIONEER VILLA

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the

_____ day of March, 2020, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and X

Development, a limited liability corporation, incorporated in the state of Utah.

                                            RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer has the Property under contract and is developing the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other

things requiring orderly development of the Property as a neighborhood office complex known as

Pioneer Villa and increasing property tax and other revenues to the City based on improvements

to be constructed on the Property.

          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                  Draper City Contract #                          Page 2 of 32
of this MDA.

          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et

seq.

          G. On ______________________, 2020, the City zoned the Property “Neighborhood

Commercial - CN”.

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                 TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits “A” - “D” are hereby

          incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

               1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

               § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

               1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

               of this MDA.

               1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

               1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

               in accordance with the approved plans.
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                         Page 3 of 32
               1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

               1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

               various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

               certain aspects of the development of the Project.

               1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

               applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

               MDA.

               1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

               Exhibit “C”.

               1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

               1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

               1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

               City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

               comments or “redlines” by City staff.

               1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

               an approved Development Application.

               1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

               other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.



Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                            Page 4 of 32
               1.2.14. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

               prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2018), or any successor

               provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

               Project.

               1.2.15. Master Developer means party to MDA, and its assignees or transferees as

               permitted by this MDA.

               1.2.16. Site Plan means the conceptual layout for the Project.

               1.2.17. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

               Exhibits.

               1.2.18. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

               required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.19. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

               Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

               review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

               fully set out in this MDA.

               1.2.20. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

               Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

               developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.

               1.2.21. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

               plural Master Developer and the City.

               1.2.22. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.




Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 5 of 32
               1.2.23. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

               pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

               other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

               1.2.24. Property means the real property to be developed by Master Developer more

               fully described in Exhibit "A".

               1.2.25. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

               to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

               Application.

               1.2.26. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

               Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

               Parcel for development.

               1.2.27. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

               lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

               1.2.28. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

               1.2.29. Zoning means the zone for the Property adopted by the City on month

               ____________, 2020.

               1.2.30. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

               adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

               the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

          shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

          that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 6 of 32
          MDA.

          2.2. Use Restriction. It is understood that the building will be restricted from being used

          as a drug and alcohol rehabilitation center.

          2.3. Building Design Requirements. The exterior design and construction of the

          building will comply with Draper City Municipal Code Section 9-11-090(D)(2): (TC)

          TOWN CENTER ZONE (Building Design Requirements), see Exhibit D, except for

          DCMC Section 9-11-090(D)(2)(e) transparency standards. Tinted or mirrored glass shall

          be allowed on the ground floor, if the building is exclusively used for office.

          2.4. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

          development of the Office Building and every other aspect of the Master Plan requires

          that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws including,

          without limitation, the City’s geologic hazards requirements. The City’s entry into this

          MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able to construct the Office

          Building or any other aspect of the Project until and unless all the applicable

          requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

          provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

          “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

          Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 7 of 32
          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

               3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

               agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

               3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

               3.2.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, or similar

               construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the

               APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control

               Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

               recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

               and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

               welfare;

               3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

               imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

               and entities similarly situated;

               3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

               Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

               portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

               adopted pursuant to State law;

               3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                     Draper City Contract #                          Page 8 of 32
               and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

               Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

               Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

               3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

               principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

               or similar items are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially

               and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

               3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

               land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be _________________,

2020. This MDA shall expire ____________, 2040. If Master Developer has not been declared

to be currently in Default as of __________, 2040 (and if any such Default is not being cured)

then this MDA shall be automatically extended until __________, 2045. This MDA shall also

terminate automatically at Buildout.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

          Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

          Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

          processed on a timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to

          ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                             Page 9 of 32
          promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

          faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a

          City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

          Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

          with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

          having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

          provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as

          may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

          a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

          within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

          difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

          actual cost differential.

          5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

          addressed.

          5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 10 of 32
          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by

          this MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City

          review pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by

          City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from

          the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least

          three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                         Page 11 of 32
          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

               Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:

                                  (i)     the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines

                                  and stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                  (ii)    right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering

                                  or vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                  (iii)   interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                  necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their

                                  intended purpose of the Development Standards, and

                                  (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

               5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                            Page 12 of 32
               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

               attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

               agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the resolution that the

               mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

               parties.

          5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

               5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               . If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

               decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

               consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

               consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

               upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

               or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

               and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

               arbitrator’s fees.



Last Update Date 2/3/2020                     Draper City Contract #                            Page 13 of 32
          5.9. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

          public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

          development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

          of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

          Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(57)(c)(v) (2018) that does not create any

          individually developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in

          the City’s Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at

          the time of such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security

          for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

          Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

          individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

          allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

          Laws.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

          the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.



Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                            Page 14 of 32
          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Default.

          8.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

          respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

          that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

          that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

          courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

          8.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               8.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

               8.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

               Default;

               8.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

               8.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          8.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                          Page 15 of 32
          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          8.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 10.9:

               8.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

               including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

               8.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

               with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

               8.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

               licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

               case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

               development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

               cured.

          8.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 8.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          8.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

          finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

          of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 8.4 without the requirements of Sections 8.5. The City shall give Notice to

          Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

          emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                            Page 16 of 32
          Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

          claimed emergency Default.

          8.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          8.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          8.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

          performance.

     9. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     Steve Hutchings
     X-Development, LLC
     9537 South 700 East
     Sandy, Utah 84070
     EMAIL
     PHONE



     To the City:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                         Page 17 of 32
     David Dobbins
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     David.dobbins@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500

     With a Copy to:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     Mike.barker@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500


          9.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

               9.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service, or

               by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

               delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

               of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

               notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

               9.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.

               9.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid, by


Last Update Date 2/3/2020                     Draper City Contract #                           Page 18 of 32
               First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

               by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

               Section.

     10. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

     11. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     12. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

          12.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer’s selling or conveying lots in any approved

          Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

          “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

          designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

          12.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to

          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                          Page 19 of 32
          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          12.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

          proposed assignee.

          12.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          12.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.

          12.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                   Draper City Contract #                           Page 20 of 32
          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

          Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

          obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

          or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

          City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

          processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          12.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

          provisions of Section 2.

     13. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges, and

configurations, as applicable to such Parcel and be subject to the same limitations and rights of

the City when owned by or Master Developer and as set forth in this MDA without any required

approval, review, or consent by the City except as otherwise provided herein.

     14. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     15. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                    Draper City Contract #                           Page 21 of 32
     16. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     17. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     18. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Steve Hutchings. The Parties

may change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at

all reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

     19. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     20. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     21. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between
Last Update Date 2/3/2020                 Draper City Contract #                             Page 22 of 32
the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     22. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     23. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “C”, shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

“C” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

     24. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Resolution No.

___ adopted by the City on _______________, 20___.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                               CITY
X-Development, LLC                             Draper City

_______________________                        _____________________
By: ________________                           By: ___________,
Its: _________________                         Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                             Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:              Attest:

__________________                             __________________
City Attorney                                  City Recorder




Last Update Date 2/3/2020                 Draper City Contract #                           Page 23 of 32
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the _ __ day of month, 2020, personally appeared before me ______________, who
being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of Michel Land, a Utah limited liability
company and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a lawful
meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.

                                                        ______________________________
                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date 2/3/2020               Draper City Contract #                         Page 24 of 32
                            TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                         Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                         Site Plan
Exhibit “C”                         City’s Vested Laws
Exhibit “D”                         Building Design Requirements




Last Update Date 2/3/2020      Draper City Contract #               Page 25 of 32
                                     Exhibit “A”
                             Legal Description of Property




Legal Description:
307-008 Parcel #28293070080000. BEG W 130.5 FT FR SE COR LOT 1, BLK 14,
DRAPERVILLE; W 158.35 FT; N 148.5 FT; E 288.35 FT; S 84.5 FT; W 130.5 FT; S64 FT TO
BEG. 4780-931 7372-2270,2272 7393-1969 7828-1224

307-007 Parcel #28293070070000. BEG AT SE COR LOT 1, BLK 14, DRAPERVILLE; N 64
FT; W 130.5 FT; S 64 FT; E 130.5 FT TO BEG. 4780-0931 6405-2769 8045-6 8455-3773




Last Update Date 2/3/2020           Draper City Contract #                  Page 26 of 32
                              Exhibit “B”
                               Site Plan




Last Update Date 2/3/2020   Draper City Contract #   Page 27 of 32
                                Exhibit “C”
                            City’s Vested Laws




Last Update Date 2/3/2020     Draper City Contract #   Page 28 of 32
                                                                   Exhibit “D”
                                                          Building Design Requirements
2. Building Design Requirements:


a. Building Height: No new building or addition to an existing building constructed within the TC Zone shall exceed a maximum height of thirty five feet
    (35'). Building heights may be limited to less than thirty five feet (35') to ensure compatibility with neighboring buildings. Furthermore, towers, spires,
    chimneys, enclosures for necessary mechanical equipment, clocks, and similar structures that enhance the architectural character of the building,
    equaling not more than ten percent (10%) of the building footprint, may exceed the maximum building height by not more than fourteen feet (14'), as
    approved by the Planning Commission, with a commercial site plan application. Accessory buildings shall be a maximum of twenty feet (20') total
    height with no additional height allowance for architectural features.

    FIGURE 9
    BUILDING HEIGHT




    (Ord. 1121, 6-7-2016)
b. Horizontal Variation: No building facade shall be more than fifty feet (50') in horizontal length without a visual break that creates the appearance of
    storefront bays. This shall be achieved through a change in building material, building projections or relief measuring at least three feet (3') in width and
    depth, or another architectural variation that meets the intent of this subsection. No such architectural break in the horizontal plane shall be wider than
    three feet (3'). No combination of buildings shall extend along their combined front facade for more than one hundred feet (100'), measured parallel to
    the front property line, without a break or separation in the buildings of at least fifteen feet (15') in width. Such breaks shall be improved for use as
    pathways for pedestrian and/or vehicular access to parking areas or the rear of the site.

    FIGURE 10
    VARIATIONS




    Last Update Date 2/3/2020                                         Draper City Contract #                                                       Page 29 of 32
c. Vertical Variation: Buildings in excess of two (2) stories in height shall exhibit architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower
    and upper stories. This may be accomplished by a mid facade cornice or trim, a change in material, style, or color, a facade stepback or roof pitch with
    dormer windows, or other methods that meet the intent of this subsection.


d. Building Orientation: Buildings within the TC Zone shall have their architectural orientation toward the front property line of the site which includes having
    at least one functioning entry door oriented to the street. Buildings on corner lot sites shall have an architectural orientation toward each right-of-way
    frontage with the appearance of building entry points along each front facade. Buildings shall also have an entrance oriented toward the parking area
    associated with that building.


e. Transparency: In order to create a more friendly and pedestrian oriented environment for the area, all buildings shall have a minimum of fifty percent
    (50%) each building facade which faces a public or private right-of-way consisting of windows and doors on the ground level. Side and rear facades
    shall have a minimum of fifty percent (50%) transparency if they face upon a parking area or a pedestrian or vehicular pathway. Other facades shall
    have a minimum twenty five percent (25%) transparency. Tinted or mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor.


f. Architectural Features:


(1) Adopted Guidelines: All architecture and exterior materials are to follow the adopted Town Center Design Guidelines.


(2) Entries: Buildings shall be designed with distinct and inviting entryways and features.


(3) Window Accents: Windows shall include accent features such as trim, sills, oriels, and shutters that serve to soften the appearance of the building and
    create a smaller scale pedestrian feel and environment.


(4) Roofs: Roofs shall be varied in style with elements of hipped, gabled, and flat roofs. Rooflines shall have ornamentation such as gable dormer windows,
    six inch (6") cornice or hips perpendicular to the primary roofline.



    Last Update Date 2/3/2020                                          Draper City Contract #                                                       Page 30 of 32
(5) Awnings: The use of awnings on the ground floor is strongly encouraged. Awnings should be employed uniformly across the horizontal plane of
    buildings. Awnings shall be permitted to overhang property lines bordering public rights-of-way but shall not do so in a manner which interferes with
    pedestrian or vehicular movement, necessitates supports extending below the bottom of the awning frame, or creates any other condition that is a
    nuisance or unsightly.


(6) Service Areas: Loading docks and service areas shall be screened from streets and adjacent properties through architectural design and landscaping.


g. Building Materials: New buildings within the TC Zone shall be designed and constructed with minimum of eighty percent (80%) brick on each facade, in
    accordance with the following provisions:


(1) Windows shall be excluded from the calculation of exterior building material requirements.


(2) Secondary materials shall be stucco, stone, fiber/cement siding, wood or similar material in composition and of a complementary hue and shade to the
    brick. A maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for secondary materials.


(3) A materials board containing a sampling of the desired materials and their colors shall be required with the submission for review of a proposed
    development. Development approval shall be subject to the Planning Commission approving the materials board for both composition and colors.

   FIGURE 11
   TRANSPARENCY




   Last Update Date 2/3/2020                                        Draper City Contract #                                                    Page 31 of 32
(4) Brick, rock, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to create compliance with the color palette of the site.


(5) Fiber/cement siding and wood elements of a building may be painted or stained only as a means to integrate the material into the color palette of the
    buildings on the same and neighboring sites.


h. Projections: Building projections shall not be permitted beyond the property line, with the exception of permitted signs and awnings, covered walkways,
    and other features, as approved by the Planning Commission that are meant to provide pedestrian cover.


    i. Four Sided Architecture: The design of a building shall be considered on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet the terms of
    this section.




    Last Update Date 2/3/2020                                         Draper City Contract #                                                   Page 32 of 32
