MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JULY
21, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:              Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                      Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                    Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                    Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Russ Fox, Assistant
                    City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Director
                    of Community Development; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                    Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.

This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.

Determination 2020-01, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper
City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those
who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct
electronic meetings without an anchor location. The foregoing determination is based on the
following facts:

   •   Federal, State, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have
       all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
   •   COVID-19 cases in Salt Lake County and Draper continue to increase at rates that pose a
       risk of overburdening the local health care system.
   •   It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to
       manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
   •   COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
       Draper City residents.
   •   The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear,
       or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
   •   The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.

To participate, please see the options below:
   • Listen through the Draper City website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas- Minutes
   • Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting.
       These will become part of the public record.
   • Those wishing to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting, send a request
       for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, July 21, 2020.
Study Session

1.0   Discussion: Open Burn Ordinance – Chief Clint Smith

1.1   Chief Smith said the staff was primarily seeking feedback from the Council on how this
      ordinance would affect the City. The staff’s job was to mitigate risks to the community.
      Currently, Utah ranked third in the nation for most acreage currently burned in the present
      wildland fire season at 180,000 acres. In an interview with the State Fire Marshal today,
      it was noted that as of last week the State had spent $6.2 million in fighting wildland fires.
      In this past week, there were 71 new fire starts and all of them were human-caused. Over
      the weekend alone, there were an additional 33 fire starts, the majority of which were also
      human-caused.

      The biggest threat in Draper City is its wildland-urban interface area, which encompasses
      everything south and east of Highland Drive. The job of the Fire Department is to do risk
      assessments and propose solutions to those risks. Chief Smith discussed the Traverse
      Mountain fire that started on the Utah County side and the uncertainty it caused residents
      in Draper. He presented an updated Open Burn Ordinance for the Council’s consideration,
      which contemplated a ban of natural, open flame fires April 1st through October 31st.

1.2   Councilmember Roberts asked what the thought process was on open flames being a key
      component to potential fire risks in Draper. He asked if data was available that this was a
      common cause of fires in the area. Chief Smith explained that ember-emitting fires were
      the main concern of the staff when developing the language of the proposed ordinance.

1.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked for clarification on the language being proposed, to
      which Chief Smith presented said verbiage on his screen. He stated he would also email
      the language out to the Mayor and Council. Councilmember T. Lowery requested that if
      in addition to noting what was not allowed, the ordinance also includes language stating
      what was allowed.

      Don Buckley, Fire Marshal, added that it was clearly stated in the ordinance that propane,
      enclosed fires, or natural gas fire pits would be allowed.

1.4   Councilmember F. Lowry asked how this ordinance would be enforced. Chief Smith
      stated that education was important, and this would take place through the Fire
      Departments social media outlets. Enforcement typically takes place in response to citizen
      complaints. Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that the boundary for these enforcements
      was east and south of Highland Drive. Chief Smith said that was correct. Councilmember
      F. Lowry stated that this ordinance was overdue.

1.5   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there was a grant program the City could develop to
      assist residents in turning in their old fire pit for a new one that met ordinance requirements.
      Chief Smith said the staff would look into the matter.




                                           Page 2 of 8
      Mr. Buckley added he was not aware of any grants, either, but he offered suggestions on
      ways to convert old fire pits into something safer.

1.6   Councilmember Vawdrey questioned whether April was a fire risk month. Chief Smith
      said this was a debate among the staff. Per the data, they agreed it was, especially this year
      as it was a dry spring. He added that the staff was open to debate on dates, however.

      Councilmember F. Lowry agreed with Councilmember Vawdrey’s remark. Chief Smith
      said all of these requirements would come down to a successful education campaign.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said spring and fall were the most conducive times to sitting
      around a campfire outside. She wanted there to be more open options.

1.7   Mayor Walker asked if the staff would bring forth an ordinance that could be reviewed and
      discussed by the Council, to which Chief Smith answered affirmatively.

1.8   Councilmember Roberts asked if there would be a penalty or fine attached to the ordinance
      if violated by residents. Mike Barker, City Attorney, said a fine would not be associated
      with the ordinance; however, violations to City Code were considered a Class D
      misdemeanor.

      Mayor Walker suggested that violations to the ordinance begin as infractions, before
      assigning misdemeanor offenses. Chief Clint Smith agreed, and there was further
      discussion regarding the boundaries where this ordinance would apply. A map of the
      subject area would be included with the draft ordinance emailed to the Mayor and Council.

1.9   Chief Smith asked if there was a different date range Councilmembers would prefer to see
      written in the ordinance. The consensus was to change the dates to May 1 through
      September 30th. The Council also requested data on the number of fires started by open
      fire pits.

2.0   Discussion: Flag Lot Options – Todd Draper

2.1   Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, introduced Todd Draper as a new
      Planner, noting this was his first project with the City. She also noted that on April 7th the
      Council passed a flag lot moratorium and it would expire around October 7th.

2.2   Todd Draper, Planner, presented several flag lot options for the City. The first option was
      to eliminate flag lots. Second, the City could restrict the zones in which they were allowed.
      Third, they could study the regulations and enhance them to be more conducive to needs
      within the City. He presented aerial zoning maps of the City to discuss this matter further.
      He suggested Draper consider creating a minimum pavement width to enhance the size of
      the flag portion. Additionally, he suggested the City restrict landscaping adjacent to
      driveways within specific zones. Accessory buildings should also be assessed. Mr. Draper
      discussed regulations that existed in other cities to further illustrate his suggestions.



                                           Page 3 of 8
2.3   Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, asked Scott Cooley, Public Works
      Director, to define unclassified streets. Mr. Cooley explained that these were primarily
      residential roads; they were not collector or arterial roads. Christina Oliver, Community
      Development Director, asked the Council if, based on the information presented by Mr.
      Draper, this was something the Council wanted to pursue.

2.4   Councilmembers Vawdrey and T. Lowery said yes, and commended the staff for the work
      they had done on this matter.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if driveway access of flag lots included the one and half
      times calculation listed in the PowerPoint Presentation. Ms. Oliver said this would be up
      to the Council.

2.5   Councilmember F. Lowry noted there could be some legitimate flag lots in the RA-1 zone.
      Ms. Oliver clarified they were not prohibiting private lanes, which would have two access
      points. There was further discussion on the matter.

2.6   Councilmember Roberts asked if they were trying to eliminate all flag lots or if they were
      trying to make only certain types of flag lots possible. City Manager David Dobbins
      explained that based on what they had seen in the past, anytime someone came in wanting
      to do a flag lot, requests for subdivisions would follow and massive homes would then be
      built where there previously weren’t homes. Councilmember Roberts said with that logic,
      then this seemed like a more tailored approach.

      Councilmember T. Lowery added there was a lot of fear around flag lots on behalf of the
      neighbors. They felt as if they had bought into a certain zone, and so when changes were
      made to the zone, adjacent neighbors felt the decision would also affect their property as
      well.

      Councilmember F. Lowry requested that the total height requirements be defined. Ms.
      Oliver stated that the City’s zoning code did restrict height on homes within the zones, and
      these definitions varied from zone to zone. Jennifer Jastremsky, a planner, clarified that
      the maximum height in residential zones was 35 feet, which was measured from the
      midpoint in the pitch of the roof down to the average finished grade. There was further
      discussion on the matter regarding the International Building and Fire Codes. Mr. Draper
      noted that 20 feet were typically left for fire code.

2.7   Councilmember Roberts said it was a good policy to have a uniform approach, so they
      were not making ad hoc decisions about flag lots. Additionally, he did not want the City
      to be overly broad in how flag lots were limited. It was important to him that they hear
      from the residents on what concerns they had regarding the matter.

2.8   Mr. Draper asked Councilmember Roberts what he was hearing from the residents.
      Councilmember Roberts reiterated Councilmember T. Lowery’s comments on the matter,
      adding privacy as another significant concern.



                                          Page 4 of 8
2.9    Ms. Oliver stated that building envelopes, heights, and the addition of landscaping to the
       stem would drastically reduce the number of flag lot applications. These factors would
       also reduce the size of the buildings constructed on those lots. She asked the
       Councilmembers if this was how they wanted the staff to proceed.

       Councilmember Vawdrey said this sounded like the right direction. She added that this
       discussion was taking place, not for prevention but management, and these were good
       places to start.

       Councilmember Roberts asked how many applications the staff anticipated. Ms. Oliver
       stated that in Draper, people liked building larger homes. She explained that the
       requirements discussed would limit the market.

       Councilmember Green was primarily concerned with consistency, as this had been an issue
       in the past. He wanted there to be a reasonable expectation in place. Ms. Oliver concurred,
       and stated that the staff would have drafted language available at the next meeting.

2.10   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the City needed to consider that some of the flag lots
       might be larger. Ms. Oliver said that most likely a percentage of the lot coverage would
       be taken into consideration.

3.0    Council/Manager Reports

3.1    Councilmember Roberts asked if a firm answer was ever received regarding a toll road on
       Traverse Ridge Road. Mr. Dobbins said this was currently a work in progress. It was
       noted that no public entity had ever done a toll road in the State of Utah; there was one toll
       road in Utah (Ogden) that was run by a private entity. Secondly, the statutes seemed to be
       drafted more towards a private partnership with UDOT. Third, capital investment would
       be needed upfront, as well as a proposal process. The fees to go through the initial review
       process could be significant. Fourth, it would be wise for Draper City officials to meet
       with UDOT officials to get an idea of what they envisioned being required within the
       Statute. Another consideration to make was what levels of control the City would have
       over the collection and dispersal of funds. There was a brief discussion regarding the
       possibility of creating a tollway development agreement.

3.2    Councilmember T. Lowery said she received a request for more pickleball courts.


Business Session

1.0    Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0    Consent Items
       a. Approval of July 7, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes




                                            Page 5 of 8
2.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

2.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

3.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1445 and #1446: Fox Landing Phase 3
      Addition Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative
      Action) On the request of Derek Wright, representing Wright Homes, for a Land Use
      Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium
      Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000
      square foot lot minimum) to R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot
      minimum). The property is 0.461 acres in size and located approximately at 11720
      South 700 West.

3.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, a planner, presented the staff report as well as an aerial map of the
      subject property. Phase 3 would be incorporated into the overall project through the
      existing stub roads constructed when Phases 1 and 2 were completed. The applicant was
      proposing to keep the 40,000 square foot lot for the existing home on 700 West; they were
      not proposing any zone changes to that existing property. However, the proposed zoning
      would allow them to purchase the back .461 acres of that property and include it as a lot
      within their subdivision. This would also allow them to modify the angles of this street to
      create a more efficient configuration.

      Ms. Jastremsky explained that Fox Landing had a development agreement that came in
      with the original development. The development agreement limited the applicant to 90 lots
      with a set maximum density of 2.2 dwelling units per acre and a minimum lot size of 14,500
      square feet. This proposed property would not be subject to the development agreement,
      but the staff did analyze the subject property against that development agreement to ensure
      that it would not impact the overall subdivision’s compliance with the development
      agreement. With the addition of this lot, Fox Landing would have 89 lots with a density of
      2.01 dwelling units per acre. The average lot size would be 17,000 square feet. The
      applicant was fully in compliance with the development agreement as approved for the
      subdivision, even with the addition of the subject property. The Planning Commission
      reviewed the request and recommended approval with a 5-to-0 vote.

3.2   Derek Wright, the applicant, stated that by adding this parcel, it allowed them to configure
      the road in a much more favorable way. Engineering staff were happier with the angle of
      the road they were able to create.

3.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward, so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

3.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1445 and #1446, Fox
      Landing Phase 3 Addition Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

                                          Page 6 of 8
3.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1442 and #1443: Holmes Homes Office
      Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request (Legislative
      Action) On the request of Brad Holmes, representing Holmes Homes for a Land Use
      Map Amendment from Community Commercial designation to Neighborhood
      Commercial designation and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential
      Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial)
      for property equaling 2.38 acres located approximately at 11757 South and 700 East.

4.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, a planner, presented the staff report as well as an aerial map of the
      subject property. This application was heard by the Planning Commission on June 11,
      2020, and they positively recommended the item on a 5-to-0 vote. At the time this item
      went to the Planning Commission, it included three properties that Ms. Jastremsky
      subsequently identified. The applicant had since removed the north property and was
      looking to rezone just the bottom two properties. Therefore, it went from 3.57 acres to 2.38
      acres in size. City staff determined that because it reduced the amount of acreage under
      consideration it did not have to go back to the Planning Commission for further review.

4.2   Brad Holmes, applicant, said they tried to follow Staff’s lead in drafting their application,
      to follow the City’s zoning ordinances. Additionally, they sought to consider residents’
      concerns as they were voiced at the Planning Commission meeting.

4.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

4.4   Aubrey Howell, resident, asked for clarification regarding the layout. In particular, she
      asked if the existing trees would remain, and wanted to know more about the lighting from
      the parking lot.

4.5   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

4.6   Ms. Jastremsky stated that a concept plan was not submitted with this request, so there were
      certain details she did not have available. However, she was aware that the applicant was
      looking at constructing an office building. A site plan approval process would need to be
      followed at which time all other details of the project would be reviewed.

      Mr. Holmes stated that the building would sit as close to 700 East as possible, similar to
      the other structures. Access would also factor in the layout of the property.

4.7   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinances #1442 and #1443, Holmes
      Homes Office Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.




                                          Page 7 of 8
4.8   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Adjournment

5.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember Roberts
      seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:31 p.m.




                                       Page 8 of 8
