NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, July 21, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE: This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
Determination 2020-01, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases in Salt Lake County and Draper continue to increase at rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding  social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the Public Hearing portions of he meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, July 21, 2020.
a 6:00 PM STUDY SESSION 1. Discussion: Open Burn Ordinance - Chief Smith a 2. Discussion: Flag Lot Options - Todd Draper a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM  BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Consent Items a. Approval of July 7, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes 3. Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1445 and #1446: Fox Landing Phase 3 Addition Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Derek Wright, representing Wright Homes, for a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum). The property is 0.461 acres in size and located approximately at 11720 South 700 West. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.  a 4. Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance #1442 and #1443: Holmes Homes Office Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Brad Holmes, representing Holmes Homes for a Land Use Map Amendment from Community Commercial designation to Neighborhood Commercial designation and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial) for property equaling 2.38 acres located approximately at 11757 South 700 East. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 5. Council/Manager Reports 6. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held July 21, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: July 17, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.