Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: March 10, 2020
Re: Offices on 7th Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement Comments: The subject property consists of two contiguous parcels located on the northwest quadrant of 700 East and Pioneer Road.  The applicant’s intent is to build a two-story building that would house a personal instruction use on the main floor and an office use on the upper floor.
The applications will  change the land use designation from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, change the zoning designation from RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial) and include a development agreement to restrict allowed uses on the property and require certain architectural standards.
The Planning Commission heard Mr. Morton’s Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment requests at the September 26, 2019 meeting and forwarded a negative recommendation to the City Council on a vote of 3-2. The applicant has since come in with a Development Agreement application. All three applications were heard by the Planning Commission at their February 27, 2020 meeting. The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council on a 3-2 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. That the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
2. That the facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are adequate.
3. The proposed amendment complies with the findings in Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC.
4. The proposed amendment is supported by the purpose statement in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
5. The proposed agreement complies with the criteria in DCMC Section 9-5-200(C).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper City General Plan.
a. Zoning categories that are contemplated for the Neighborhood Commercial land use area allow uses that are not compatible with existing development and could harm the interests of those living and working in the area.
2. The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate for an area that is dominated by residential uses.
3. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property due to the additional types of uses that would be allowed.
4. The proposed amendment is not supported by the purpose statement found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
5. The prohibition on use and additional architectural standards offered in the development agreement do not out way the concern of introducing a commercial use into a primarily residential section of Pioneer Road. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1410: Land Use Map Amendment 3/4/2020 Cover Memo Ord 1411: Zoning Map Amendment and Development Agreement 3/4/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 3/4/2020 Cover Memo