Approved June 25, 2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:              Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioner Mary Squire, Traci
                             Gundersen, Kent Player, and Alternate Commissioner DeLaina
                             Tonks

PRESENT:                     Alternate Commissioner Gary Ogden

ABSENT:                      Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioner John Van Hoff, and
                             Alternate Commissioner Lisa Fowler

STAFF PRESENT:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Mike Barker, Maryann
                             Pickering, and Amie Salazar

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:             Christina Oliver, Spencer DuShane, Don Buckley and Russell Fox



6:30 PM Business Meeting

The Agenda will be as follows:

1.     Electronic Meeting
       This meeting will be an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54.
       As restrictions take place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make
       sure everyone interested in participating can do so in a manner they feel most
       comfortable.
            Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
            Email your comments to planning.comment@draper.ut.us by Noon on the day of
               the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
            If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
               meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to
               planning.comment@draper.ut.us by Noon, June 11, 2020.


       Motion re: Commissioner Tonks made a motion to adopt the Zoom Meeting Rules, and
       Commissioner Squire seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 11, 2020
Page 2

      Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote. Commissioners Player, Squire, Tonks,
      Gunderson, and Ogden voted, “Aye.”

      Chairman Adams stated this is an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City resolution
      14-54 regarding restrictions limiting public gatherings. He listed multiple ways to view
      and participate in the meeting.

5.    Public Hearing: 123XD Land Use Map and Zoning Map (Legislative Action)
      A request by Keaton Morton, representing X Development, to amend the land use map
      for the southern half of the subject property from Town Center to Neighborhood
      Commercial and to amend the zoning designation for the entire site from RA2
      (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CC (Community
      Commercial). The property is located at approximately 736 East 12300 South and 749-
      763 East Pioneer Road. Application TEXTMAP-973-2020 and TEXTMAP-1006-2020.
      Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

      Staff Member Maryann Pickering presented on the parcel, which primarily fronts on
      12300 South with one access along Pioneer Road. The requested land-use change was to
      designate the entire parcel as Neighborhood Commercial. It is currently zoned RA2 but
      had CC zoning to the East and West and CN zoning to the North. The subject property, if
      zoned CC, could potentially have a 45-foot building height, and the applicant had
      indicated that commercial buildings would be located primarily along 12300 South.

      Applicant Dave Morton expressed appreciation for the Staff’s help and for the
      Commission’s time. He outlined the possibility of three-story buildings that allow
      retail/commercial on the main floor and neighborhood offices on the others. He felt the
      property was important to Draper and provided an opportunity to have a mix of retail,
      office space, and mentioned the current and requested land use and zoning. He detailed
      the challenges of providing anything to the Town Center designation due to the shape of
      the lot. He noted the canal along 700 East gave an 80-foot setback for the building. He
      emphasized the frontage on 12300 South was maximized for retail/commercial on the
      main floor and that if the height is restricted, it will increase the building’s footprint and
      decrease parking. He was looking to increase the height restrictions of 35 feet. The
      Developer would improve canal aesthetics when working with the canal company and
      provide architectural step backs that would help the building appear shorter in height.

      Additionally, he presented an architectural rendering detailing the architectural step
      backs. He would not be able to put retail on the main floor without the height deviation.
      He gave a rendering of the height of the building and showed the architectural step backs,
      including the difference between 35 and 45 feet. He felt the use proposed is consistent
      with similar corner sites in the area. He noted the project would provide retail to the
      neighborhood and would be walkable.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 11, 2020
Page 3

      Chairman Adams stated that he was concerned about the continuity between the
      architectural rendering and physical structure. He asked if when the rendering was done,
      did they fly a red balloon to 45 feet, or did they just estimate the height.

      Mr. Morton stated that the concerns could be handled through development agreements
      with the City Staff to ensure the correct elevations. He focused on the ability to provide
      retail on the main level by adding 10 feet in height. He noted that the architectural step
      backs would help the visual of the building.

      Chairman Adams then stated he has had past applicants change zoning and then come to
      the Commission needing more height for proposed projects. He was glad that the
      proposed zoning change would include the proposed building height. Although, he felt
      concerned about the rendering being the same as the final project. He stated the rendering
      is not accurate but is an estimate.

      Mr. Morton stated that was a fair statement. He noted what was accurate on the rendering
      is the difference between the 35 and 45 feet. He wanted to be transparent with the
      Commissioners about height.

      Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. He detailed how the public could add
      themselves to the queue using the “raise hand” feature and the rules.

      John Putz stated he is a residence of the sunset Ponds neighborhood. He was concerned
      about the height and the traffic problem on 12300 South. He wanted to know how the
      applicant would address the 100 plus car parking lot and how the traffic would be routed
      going left onto 12300 South. He wanted the proposed retail to be defined.

      Chairman Adams stated they would not answer questions during the public hearing but
      would take note of concerns and address them.

      Adam Corello noted that he lives in the townhomes Northeast of the proposed project
      area. He felt that the rendering did not fit the historical context of the area. He hoped the
      building would provide an area the locals can visit.

      Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

      Mr. Morton expressed appreciation for the public comments. He addressed that traffic
      patterns of retail and business are different to allow the parking to be utilized efficiently.
      There would be two access points, and the traffic will naturally route to the least busy
      exit. He listed various types of retail that could potentially inhabit the building. He did
      not feel there would be restaurants. He reiterated the building would only be three
      stories, but the additional ten feet in height will allow a retail option. He noted that they
      are willing to discuss the architectural design with Draper City and also with the public
      but felt design esthetics were often personal.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
June 11, 2020
Page 4

      Chairman Adams noted that there were two items for recommendation and opened the
      discussion.

      Commissioner Squire felt concerned about the height of the proposed project. She felt
      that often they receive requests to go higher and that this proposed height would not be
      appropriate for the lot. She felt the view of the mountain would be blocked.

      Commissioner Tonks shared concerns about the height and the building being so close to
      the corner. She asked if anyone knew the height of Hanger 15 across the street to
      perceive the height differential.

      Chairman Adams stated that the best way to determine that is to go out to the site with a
      red balloon to gauge height. He felt that there is not a way to assess the impact of height.
      He commended the applicant for being straightforward.

      Commissioner Gundersen commented she felt they should focus on the zone change in
      context to surrounding zones.

      Commissioner Squire stated that she agreed with those statements and would look at the
      neighborhood character.

      Motion re: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a negative recommendation to the
      City Council to amend the 123 X Development land use map amendment, by Keaton
      Morton, TEXTMAP-1006-2020, based on the findings in the Staff Report on June 2,
      2020.

      Second: Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

      Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting in favor of the motion. This
      item passed with a 4 to 1 vote. Commissioners Player, Squire, Tonks, and Ogden voted,
      “Aye”. Commissioner Gunderson voted, “Nay”.

      Motion re: Commissioner Squire moved to forward a negative recommendation to the
      City Council to amend the 123 X Development zoning land use map amendment, by
      Keaton Morton, TEXTMAP-973-2019, based on the findings in the Staff Report on June
      2, 2020.

      Second: Commissioner Tonks seconded the motion.

      Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting in favor of the motion. This
      item passed with a 4 to 1 vote. Commissioners Player, Squire, Tonks, and Ogden voted,
      “Aye”. Commissioner Gunderson voted, “Nay”.
