NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA AMENDED Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, September 15, 2020, at 5:30 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically. Determination 2020-08, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
A. I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B. The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, State and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at significant levels and hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at rates that, if left unchecked, pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines and Salt Lake County Health Department Public Health Orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website -  https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearing portions of the meeting may send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon the day of the meeting.
a 5:30 PM STUDY SESSION 1. Discussion: Fluoride in WaterPro service area - David Gardner a 2. Presentation: The Point - Alan Matheson a 3. Presentation: Property Watch - Salt Lake County Recorder, Rashelle Hobbs a 4. Presentation: Hiking Trail Options - Rhett Ogden a 5. Council/Manager Reports a 6. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 3. Consent Items a. Approval of August 4, 2020, and August 18, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes b. Approval of Resolution #20-39 Reappointing DeLaina Tonks as an alternate member of the Draper City Planning Commission.  c. Approval of Resolution #20-43 Approval of an Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County for funds to construct a gate at the Flight Park. Staff: Christina Oliver d. Approval of Resolution #20-45 A resolution of the Draper City Council approving and authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement with Salt Lake County and other cities relating to the conduct of the Community Development Block Grant Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program and the Home Investment Partnership Program. Staff: David Dobbins e. Approval to surplus city owned vehicles. Staff: Bob Wylie 4. Public Hearing: Approval of Local Consent for Single Event Alcohol License to Icon Culinary - Nights Under Lights(Legislative Action) Staff report by Christina Oliver. a 5. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1457, Short Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request by Alex Short, to amend the zoning designation for the property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000 square foot lot minimum). The property is approximately 1.5 acres in size and is located at approximately 1017 East 13200 South. Staff report by Todd A. Draper. a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1448 and #1449, Park Crossing Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Robert Thomson representing Utah Land Co. LLC,  for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) and CC (Community Commercial) to RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential, up to 12 dwelling units per acre) and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density and Neighborhood Commercial to Residential High Density Land Use designation. The property is 3.7 acres in size and located at approximately 675 West, 679 West, 681 West, and 693 West 12300 South. Staff report by Travis Van Ekelenburg. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1456, City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment (Legislative Item) On the request of Draper City for a text amendment to amend Section 9-27-080 Flag Lots of the Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd A. Draper. a 8. Public Hearing: Resolution #20-44, amending the FY2021 Budget Staff report by Bob Wylie a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held September 15, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: September 11, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.