Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: December 17, 2020
Re: Alice Lane Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 1.75 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway and South of Ikea Way, at approximately 123 W. Ikea Way. The property is currently zoned CSD-DRC (Dahle Retail Center Commercial Special District). The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an office building with a furniture showroom and storage space. The findings are as follows: Parking Deviation
For Denial:
1.   Adequate parking will not be provided.
2.   The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for the establishment are not overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application.
3.   There are no other businesses which are open when others are closed that would create trade offs between and reduce burdens to the parking provided.
4.   There is not an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all associated uses.
5.   Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, do not provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking for this site.
6.   Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development may not be able to provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition.
7.   ADA compliant parking requirements are proposed for adjustment.
Site Plan
For Denial:
1.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
a.   The lack of an acceptable geotechnical report for the property places the proposed project out of compliance with the intent and objectives of Goal EGM-6 of the General plan which aims to reduce the risk to life and property from the impacts of natural and development-related geologic hazards.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code, including 9-19-090.
3.   Evidence that public facilities and services in that area are adequate to support the subject development as required by engineering’s standards and specifications has not been provided.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 12/11/2020 Cover Memo