Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: November 17, 2020
Re: City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to Draper City Municipal Code Sections 9-5-045 and 17-1-085. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved clarifying that a new notice is not required to be provided for items that are continued to future meetings after the public hearing has been closed.
The findings are as follows: The Planning Commission is scheduled to consider this item on November 12, 2020.  An update will be provided at the City Council public hearing.
For approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1467 11/10/2020 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 11/9/2020 Cover Memo