                                    CITY COUNCIL AGENDA
    Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a Business Meeting on Tuesday,
    February 18, 2020 at 5:30 PM, in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road,
    Draper, Utah.

    The Agenda will be as follows:
    5:30 PM STUDY MEETING

    1.        Presentation: Point of the Mountain Transit Study, Patti Garver
a
    2.        Presentation: Pressurized Irrigation System Expansion, David Gardner with
              WaterPro
a
    3.        Presentation: Traffic Study Update, Scott Cooley
a
    4.        Discussion: Building Height and Grading, Christina Oliver and Scott Cooley
a
    5.        Council/Manager Reports
a

    7:00 PM BUSINESS MEETING

    1.        Call to Order

    2.        Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

    3.        Recognition: Youth Council members create a Neighborhood Watch group in
              Deer Hollow.
a

    4.        Public Comments
              To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be
              restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three
              minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be
              submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting.
              Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but
              should be held until that item is called.
    5.        Consent Items
              a.    Approval of Resolution #20-07, authorizing the Mayor to grant a Public
                    Utility Easement on Real Property owned by the City for Peak View
                    Trailhead
                    Granting a Public Utility Easement (PUE) for Rocky Mountain Power for new
                    power service for Peak View Trailhead. Staff: Rhett Ogden
              b.    Approval of Resolution #20-10, amending Section 8080 - Sick Leave, and
                    Section 9030 - Tuition Reimbursement of the Personnel Policy Manual
                    Staff: Hazel Dunsmore
              c.    Approval of Resolution #20-11, implementing Section 7070 - Fitness
                    Facility, of the Personnel Policy Manual
                    Staff: Hazel Dunsmore
              d.    Approval of Resolution #20-12, appointing Brenda Taylor as a member of
                    the Youth Council Advisory Board
              e.    Approval of Resolution #20-14, for a Lease Agreement with New
                    Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC
                    Seeking City Council approval for a Lease Agreement with New Cingular
                    Wireless PCS, LLC (AT&T) for the installation of an equipment shelter and
                    infrastructure at the SunCrest water tank.

    6.        Public Hearing: Approval of Ordinance # 1422, Nielsen's Frozen Custard
              Development Agreement Request (Legislative Action)
              On the request of Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen's Frozen Custard and Diner, for
              a Development Agreement modifying Title 9 design standards on 0.70 acres of
              property located at 1462 East Draper Parkway. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky.
a
    7.        Public Hearing: Provide Local Consent for an On-Premise Banquet Alcohol
              License for Belle Hall Event Center (Administrative Action)
              Staff report by Christina Oliver.
a
    8.        Closed Session: By Motion, as needed
              The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a
              closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or
              mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the
              purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.

a

    9.        Adjournment
    SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

    I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City
    Council meeting to be held February 18, 2020, were posted on the Draper City Electronic
    Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us, the Utah Public Notice website at
www.utah.gov/pmn, and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: February 14, 2020
                                                    Laura Oscarson, City Recorder
                                                    Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or
services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or
laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.
