Draft minutes September 24, 2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:           Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioners Kent Player, Gary
                          Ogden, Mary Squire, and Alternate Commissioner Lisa Fowler and
                          DeLaina Tonks

ABSENT:                   Chairman Andrew Adams, Commissioner John Van Hoff, Alternate
                          Commissioner Tab Bingham

STAFF PRESENT:            Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Travis Van Ekelenburg, Mike
                          Barker, Amie Salazar and Todd Draper

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:           Christina Oliver




6:30 PM Business Meeting

The Agenda will be as follows:

Electronic Meeting Notice

This meeting will be held electronically
   • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
   • Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on
      the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
   • If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
      meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on
      the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

Determination 2020-02, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
A.      I, Planning Commission Chair Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an
electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and
hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without
an anchor location.
B.      The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
        •       Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
        Council have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
        virus.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 24, 2020
Page 2
        •       COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at high levels and hospitalizations in Salt
Lake County and Draper continue at high rates, both of which pose a risk of overburdening the
local health care system.
        •       It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased
Guidelines.
        •       COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of Draper City residents.
        •       The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
FIX WORDING To update wording

1.     Public Hearing: Four Bears Estates Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map
       Amendment Request (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Todd Bradford for a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential
       Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map Amendment
       from RA1 to R3 on 0.96 acres of property located at 12758 South Boulter St.
       Applications TEXTMAP-1011-2020 and TEXTMAP-1012-2020. Staff contact is
       Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Senior Planner Jennifer Jastremsky gave overview of this item. The property was located on
Boulter Street and was located in the residential low/medium density. This zoning allowed one to
two units per acre. The applicant proposed changing the zoning to residential medium density
land use, which allowed three to four units per acre. The property was currently zoned RA1 and
the applicant proposed changing the zoning to the RA3 zone. She showed site photos and
explained the property currently had one single family home and they were proposing to have
two homes on the .96-acre parcel of land.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler mentioned there was a driveway on the north side of the lot and
asked if that would be where the private lane was.

Ms. Jastremsky replied she had not seen where the private lane was to be placed.

Garrett Daw, one of the applicants, explained they intended on splitting this parcel into two
18,000 square foot lots. He thought this would beautify the area and thought it was in line with
what was going on in this neighborhood.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing. There were no comments, and he closed the
public hearing.

Motion re: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council about the land use map amendment as requested by Todd Bradford application
TEXTMAP-1011-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report
dated 09/15/2020. Commissioner Player seconded the motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 24, 2020
Page 3
Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
       This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

Motion re: Commissioner Squire made a motion to forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the zoning map amendment as requested by Todd Bradford application
TEXTMAP-1012-2020. Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

2.     Public Hearing: Alpine Joint Venture Sidewalk Deviation (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Lara Salazar, representing Ezra Lee Design + Build, for approval of a
       Sidewalk Deviation in the A5 zone for property located at approximately 16377 S.
       Suncrest Drive. The property is approximately 235.33 acres in size. Application: SPR-
       1040-2020. Staff contact: Todd A. Draper (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us.

Todd Draper gave an overview of this item. He explained the applicant was trying to lessen the
amount of roadway improvements that was required to be installed on Suncrest Drive. There
were approximately 3,905 feet of frontage on the road and this was zoned residential hillside low
density. The zoning was A5 and was in the hillside sensitive deviation zone. They planned on
putting in 495 feet of sidewalk on the East and 100 feet on the West. He showed an overall site
plan an explained the home would be constructed on the far Eastern side of the property. Public
works asked that the 100 feet of sidewalk not be constructed and recommended that the 495 feet
should be constructed.

Ms. Fowler mentioned avoiding sidewalks until further development. She wondered if they
needed a deviation or if they just wanted more time.

Mr. Draper replied they were requesting a deviation even though they could potentially develop
it further later. This means they needed to treat this application like a deviation and not a
postponement.

Brien Maxfield, the City engineer, stated Suncrest development had constructed sidewalk on one
side of the road and so this was doable. The road had a drop off and was not meant to have
sidewalk on both sides of the road.

Commissioner Mary Squire thanked Mr. Maxfield for the explanation.

Mr. Draper mentioned there were some alternative plans that could be put into action.

Doug Staker, the architect on the project stated this was a large parcel and they were building a
single-family residence on it. The applicant planned on developing the parcel in the future, but
they were requesting a deviation for now. It seemed appropriate for a single-family home. He
asked if there were any questions.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened up the public hearing.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 24, 2020
Page 4

Dave Wilding commented the East side was not really feasible to put a sidewalk on. He never
saw anyone walk on that side of the street and so it would not even be used. It would be prudent
to wait to put in any sidewalk until there were more people who would use this sidewalk.

Vice Chairman Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler stated she was confused. If they allowed this deviation, they would be
absolved from installing a sidewalk forever. She felt like they were asking for a deferral and not
a deviation.

Mr. Staker replied they would take either a deviation or a deferral. A sidewalk seemed
unnecessary at the moment.

Ms. Jastremsky commented they could make a condition stating this was a deferral and they
would eventually have to put a sidewalk in.

Commissioner Squire stated it was required that when a parcel was developed, people were
required to put sidewalks in. She felt like if they gave a deviation, they would be putting off a
sidewalk for a time period nobody knew. There were people who used the sidewalk and it was
safer for a person to use a sidewalk than the shoulder of the road. If they put in a sidewalk,
people would use it. She would be happy to have even just the westside of the sidewalk.

Mr. Staker replied the applicant would likely be okay with just receiving a deferral. There was
only one person living on this parcel.

Commissioner Fowler mentioned the sidewalk would benefit the whole City and was not just
meant to benefit the parcel owner.

Commissioner Kent Player asked if the road had a shoulder of the road sufficient to bike safely.

Commissioner Gary Ogden replied there was a shoulder. He was concerned about not having a
sidewalk for people to utilize.

Commissioner Fowler was interested in the alternative motion.

Commissioner Squire asked if they used one of the alternative motions if they had to read the
whole thing.

Mike Barker stated she would just make a motion and he could make sure the motion in its
entirety was included for the record.

Motion re: Commissioner Fowler moved to approve the sidewalk deviation as requested by Lara
Salazar, representing Ezra Design+ Build, application SPR-1040-2020 based on the findings and
subject to the conditions found in the staff report dated 09/11/2020 and as modified by the
findings and conditions found below:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 24, 2020
Page 5
   1. That approval of the sidewalk deviation does not alleviate the applicant from compliance
       with all other ordinances and standard practices applicable to the review and approval of
       the building permit or future land use applications.
   2. That all requirements of Draper City engineering, public works, building, planning, and
       fire divisions are satisfied throughout the construction of all buildings on the site,
       including permitting.
   3. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the construction
       of all buildings on the site.
   4. That approximately 490 linear feet of sidewalk be installed on the east side of Suncrest
       Drive in the location proposed on the site plan.
   5. That the required sidewalk be installed on the west side of Suncrest Drive along the entire
       frontage of the subject property. The sidewalk shall be the width of the stamped concrete
       park strip and six-foot-wide sidewalk from existing improvements at the adjacent parcel
       to the north.
   6. That a deferral for sidewalk installation be given for the remaining east side frontage of
       the subject property along Suncrest Drive until such time additional development beyond
       the proposed single-family dwelling may occur on the property.

Commissioner Squire seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

3.     Public Hearing: Draper Wingate Subdivision Plat Amendment Request
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Alan Melchior for a Subdivision Plat Amendment on 2.415 acres of
       property located at 12361 S Minuteman Dr. The application will combine three lots into
       one. Application SUBD-1027-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
       jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Ms. Jastremsky gave an overview of the item. She explained this property contained three
parcels that amounted to 2.4 acres. It was proposed that these three parcels become one plat.
They were not proposing any other changes. This was within the Draper Peaks Commercial
special district designation and was a part of the Draper Crossing.

Commissioner Player thought this would clean up the application and make it, so the parking
was not on a different piece of property than the hotel.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing. There were no comments, and he closed the
public hearing.

Motion re: Commissioner Player made a motion to approve the subdivision plat amendment
request by Alan Melchior application SUBD-1027-2020 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated September 15, 2020. Commissioner Tonks seconded the
motion.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 24, 2020
Page 6
Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.


4.     Public Hearing: Shaggy Chic Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)
       On the request of Vern & Christie Latham for a Home Occupation Conditional Use
       Permit located at 12868 South Fayview Lane in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural,
       20,000 ft² lot minimum) zone regarding a single chair beauty salon in a single-family
       home. Application USE-1043-2020. Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-
       6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us.

Travis Van Ekelenburg presented this item. The applicant was requesting approval for a home
occupation conditional use permit at their single-family home. The property was zoned RA2.
The applicant built a room adjacent to the garage and all business would be conducted in this
room. The business would be open two days a week and may have appointments from 8am to
4pm. There would never be more than two clients in the salon at one time. The salon would only
be in 144 square feet of the home. The only employees would be the homeowners and there
would be no signage.

Commissioner Delaina Tonks mentioned there was a concern during winter for on street parking.
She wondered if there was enough driveway parking during the winter.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg replied there was sufficient parking in the driveway.

Vern Lantham, the applicant stated he thought Mr. Van Ekelenburg explained it well. They just
wanted a quiet little salon.

Vice Chairman Hawker opened the public hearing. There were no comments, and he closed the
public hearing.

Motion re: Commissioner Ogden a motion to approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Vern and Christie Latham application USE-1043-2020 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions of the staff report dated September 10, 2020 and
Commissioner Tonks seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the motion.
This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

5.     Adjournment

Commissioner Player moved they adjourn, and they all voted in favor of adjourning the meeting.

The meeting adjourned at 7:33 pm
