Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                         Corey Solum <csolum@thinkaec.com>
Sent:                                         Friday, February 21, 2020 9:50 AM
To:                                           Jennifer Jastremsky
Cc:                                           Keith Collier
Subject:                                      Windsor Mill Entitlement and construction permitting

Importance:                                   High


Jennifer, Keith

I have tried to stop in the office this morning and missed you both and had to run for my own office.

The reason for the email is I need to coordinate with you on behalf of the client for the Windsor Mill Project. Jay had
recently had a heart attack in October 2019 and his on the mend buy not able to take care of business affairs as
expected. Being the sole owner, this has been significantly delaying efforts to finalize the plat and submit all the
drawings for construction that have been complete for 6 months. Ensign has finally gotten the south property owner to
release the easement and we have the new plat circulating with all of the agencies, and I believe it is as Sewer right now.

The clients entitlement we did is running out and we need an extension to get that plat to your department and submit
the drawings are sitting on my hard drive. His health is currently not there and I am hoping you can help me keep this
alive so we can get this project going. Can you let me know what I can do?

This has been in his court to resolve and I was just told it was not. I can’t leave this in his court and have to protect what
I have invested in labor on this project at this point to get paid. I think if we can get 6 months that is more than
adequate, but would take 30-60 days. I can offer proof that our work is completed.

Can you please think about this and get back to me. I am happy to run out and meet with you today if possible.

Sincerely,

Sincerely,

Corey R. Solum, AIA
PRINCIPAL ARCHITECT / CEO

Think Architecture, Inc.
7927 S. Highpoint Parkway, Suite 300
Sandy, Utah 84093
t: 801.269.0055 x266
www.thinkaec.com







 please consider the environment before printing this email




                                                                       1
