NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper Planning Commission will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday, September 24, 2020, at 6:30 PM, in the 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in the Council Chambers.   The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting Electronic Meeting To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City website – http://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on the day of the meeting.
6:30 PM    Business Meeting 1. Written Determination 2020-09
A. I, Andrew Adams, Chair of the Draper City Planning Commission, do hereby determine  conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B. The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases and related hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased  Guidelines.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of  Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
C. This written determination shall be included in the public notice of the Draper City Planning Commission meetings and shall be read at the beginning of an electronic meeting held without an anchor location.
D. The public notice of any meeting conducted pursuant to this written determination shall include information on how members of the public may hear, or view and hear, or make a  comment at the meeting.
E. This written determination shall take effect immediately and will expire thirty (30) days  after the date written below or until revoked, whichever is earlier.
F. This written determination shall be filed promptly with the office of the city recorder.
DATED this 31st day of August, 2020. 2. Public Hearing: Four Bears Estates Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Todd Bradford for a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 to R3 on 0.96 acres of property located at 12758 South Boulter St. Applications TEXTMAP-1011-2020 and TEXTMAP-1012-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.  3. Public Hearing: Alpine Joint Venture Sidewalk Deviation (Administrative Action) On the request of Lara Salazar, representing Ezra Lee Design + Build, for approval of a Sidewalk Deviation in the A5 zone for property located at approximately 16377 S. Suncrest Drive. The property is approximately 235.33 acres in size. Application: SPR-1040-2020. Staff contact: Todd A. Draper (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us. 4. Public Hearing: Draper Wingate Subdivision Plat Amendment Request (Administrative Action) On the request of Alan Melchior for a Subdivision Plat Amendment on 2.415 acres of property located at 12361 S Minuteman Dr. The application will combine three lots into one. Application SUBD-1027-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.  5. Public Hearing: Shaggy Chic Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (Administrative Action) On the request of Vern & Christie Latham for  a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit located at 12868 South Fayview Lane in the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) zone regarding a single chair beauty salon in a single-family home.  Application USE-1043-2020. Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us. 6. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.   Date Posted: September 18, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.