NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, November 17, 2020, at 5:30 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting Notice This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040. 1. Written Determination 2020-25 pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
Governor Herbert and the Utah Department of Health have recently issued updated orders in response to record numbers of COVID-19 cases and COVID-19-related hospitalizations.   The orders implement statewide what has been termed a “mask mandate” and have severely limited social gatherings in an attempt “to prevent and control the rapidly changing consequences of COVID-19 throughout the state.”
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with applicable health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
2. To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us .   These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request and include your name, address, and the phone number which you will be calling from, for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us .
a STUDY SESSION 1. Report: Alta View Hospital's community response during the pandemic - Scott Roberson and Amber Nielen a 2. Discussion: Public Hearing Information Submittal Deadlines - David Dobbins a 3. Update: Draper City Logo - Britnee Johnston a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 3. Consent Items a. Approval of Resolution #20-52, amending Personnel Policy Section 5040 regarding Holiday Leave. Staff: Hazel Dunsmore 4. Action Item: Resolution #20-51, accepting the Audit and Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2020. Presentation by Rob Wood a 5. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1465, Rasmussen Family Commercial Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by One West Construction, representing the Rasmussen Family Limited Partnership, to  amend the zoning map designation from the A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum) Zone to the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone for the property located at approximately 12197 South 300 East. Staff report by Maryann Pickering. a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1464, Rockwell Point Text Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by Todd Amberry representing Rockwell Point, LLC to  amend the permitted land uses to the existing Major Freeway Arterial Frontage Road (MARF) zoning district.  The changes will amend Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-11-110.  The proposed changes would apply citywide. Staff report by Maryann Pickering. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinances #1468 and #1469, Shadow Mountain Subdivision Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by Sean Shah and David Johnson  for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the RA1 zone to a split zoning of RA2 and R3, and to amend the Land Use Map on a portion of the property from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density designation.  Staff Report by Travis Van Ekelenburg a 8. Public Hearing: Resolution #20-53, amending the current Fiscal Year 2021 Budget Staff report: Bob Wylie a 9. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1467, City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text Amendment (Legislative Item) A request by Draper City for a Text Amendment to amend Sections 9-5-045 and 17-1-085 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text Amendment. Staff Report by Todd Draper.  a 10. Action Item: Ordinance #1466, adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation permitting the use of Tents and Canopies for Temporary Restaurant Dining Space (Legislative Action) A request by Draper City for a temporary land use regulation permitting the use of tents and canopies for restaurant dining space. This application is city wide and not associated with a single site. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 11. Council/Manager Reports 12. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held November 17, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: November 13, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.