Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis VanEkelenburg
CC:  Date: August 27, 2020
Re: Blue Stakes of Utah Addition Site Plan Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a site plan amendment for approximately 0.75 acres located at approximately 148 E 13200 S. The property is currently zoned CR (Regional Commercial) Zone. The applicant is requesting that a site plan amendment be approved to allow for the addition of approximately 2,313 square feet of commercial space to an existing commercial building of approximately 3,370 square feet and to modify the parking lot to accommodate the addition. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
3.   The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area.
4.   The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
5.   The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
6.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
7.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
8.  The deviations comply with criterion 2, 7 and 8 of DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).
For Denial:
1.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
3.   The proposed development does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area.
4.   The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.
5.   The entire site will not be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
6.   The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
7.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
8. The deviations do not comply with the criteria outlined in DCMC Section 9-22-030(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 8/20/2020 Cover Memo