                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                              January 14, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: January 23, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      Nielsen’s Frozen Custard – Development Agreement Request
         Application No.:   DA-704-2019
         Applicant:         Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner
         Project Location:  1462 East Draper Parkway
         Current Zoning:    CC (Community Commercial) Zone
         Acreage:           0.70 Acres (Approximately 30,492 ft2)
         Request:           Request for approval of a development agreement in the CC (Community
                            Commercial) zone regarding the redevelopment of the property into a
                            Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner restaurant.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a development agreement (Agreement) for approximately
0.70 acres located on the south side of Draper Parkway, at approximately 1462 East Draper Parkway. The
property is currently zoned CC (Community Commercial). The applicant is requesting that an Agreement
be approved to allow for the redevelopment of the site from a bank building to a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard
and Diner restaurant.

The subject property is Lot 5 of the American Estates Management Corp. Commercial Subdivision. The
property was developed in 2003 as the Bank One Commercial Site Plan. It housed the JP Morgan Chase
Bank for a number of years and is currently vacant.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Growth Area land use
designation for the subject property. Characteristics of the land use designation include the following:

         1.        Requires a commitment to exceptional levels of quality and specific plan of development
                   that meets the City’s approval.
         2.        Reduces automobile dependency with added benefits of reducing traffic congestion and
                   improving air quality.




Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                    App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                         1
         3.        Emphasis is placed on walking/bicycling to insure its effectiveness in the overall
                   circulation pattern of the site.
         4.        Scale based on the area’s character, to encourage secondary forms of circulation.
         5.        Not bisected by arterial streets.
         6.        A well-conceived site, with access to and integration with mass transit facilities.
         7.        Buildings designed per the standards of the City’s design guidelines.
         8.        Amenities provided as per the quality design standards.
         9.        Uniform design elements and themes, but a variety of expression.
         10.       Campus-style development, well landscaped.
         11.       Integration of uses varying within areas and buildings.
         12.       A mix of uses for day and evening activity.
         13.       Aesthetic signage and lighting; limited use of pole signs.
         14.       Limited traffic access points.
         15.       Common off-street traffic circulation and parking.
         16.       Pedestrian access within and between projects.

The property has been assigned the CC zoning classification. The purpose of the CC zone is to “provide
areas where commercial uses may be established which are generally oriented toward local residents
rather than out of town patrons.”

The General Plan does not identify any specific zoning designations as a preferred zoning classification,
but calls for the underlying zoning as compatible for the Growth Area land use designation. The property
is adjacent to the CC zone on the west, east, and south, and the OS (Open Space) zone on the north.

Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting an Agreement to allow for a restaurant use to be
located on the property. The use would be specifically a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner. The
Agreement modifies certain zoning regulations to allow for the applicants corporate 1930’s and 1940’s
style diner restaurant. The stated benefit to the City for entering into an Agreement is that it will provide a
planning and economic benefit to the City by redeveloping a vacant bank building and expanding the
commercial businesses within the city.

This report will outline the proposed deviations that the Agreement would approve. The Agreement can
be found as Exhibit E in this report. The proposed deviations from Draper City Municipal Code (DCCM)
can be found in section 2 of the Agreement, with exhibits showing the proposed site, building, and
signage design included in the Agreement as Exhibit B.

Parking: The property is part of the American Estates Management Corp Commercial Subdivision. This
subdivision has a shared parking Agreement for the different lots and uses within its boundaries,
including the Walmart Neighborhood Market, and other commercial buildings. The Agreement would
allow this shared parking to count towards the parking standards for the proposed restaurant. DCMC
Section 9-25-050(D) allows the Planning Commission to approve a deviation for shared parking. This
Agreement would approve the deviation. The proposed building is 2,393 square feet in size and requires
24 parking spaces. The concept plan included in the Agreement shows 24 parking spaces. This request
gives some flexibility in design as the applicant goes through the site plan process and fully engineers the
site. Given the high customer volume of other Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner locations, the
requested allowance for shared parking would also allow for additional parking needs to be met on busy
days.

Design Standards: The applicant is asking for several design standard deviations. The Planning
Commission has the authority to approve deviations per DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), subject to the site
meeting three of the below standards:



Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                       App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                           2
         1.        The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what
                   is required in the development code and site plan review.
         2.        The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area
                   exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
         3.        The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a
                   transportation facility.
         4.        Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative
                   design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.
         5.        The project is an accredited LEED development.
         6.        The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
                   master plan or ordinance.
         7.        The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which
                   involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures
                   added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project.
         8.        Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%)
                   more than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a
                   combination thereof.
         9.        The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
                   modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-
                   22-040F of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
         10.       The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
                   greater than the minimum required amount.

The applicant has indicated that the site meets criteria 6, 7, 9, and 10. The list of requested design
deviations are below.

         Context: DCMC Section 9-22-040(A) requires building designs to consider surrounding or
         nearby buildings and to reflect the character of the neighborhood by utilizing similar positive and
         desirable features. The Agreement would allow the proposed diner style, which is unique to the
         area.

         Building Façade Colors: According to DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(1) each building shall have at
         least three colors. The Agreement would allow the proposed building to only have two colors,
         white and black.

         Color Utilization: The colors used on a building are required to be sensitive to existing
         development within the vicinity and the natural landscape per DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(2).
         The Agreement would allow for the building to be white and black.

         Primary Materials: DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) requires each building façade to contain at
         least two primary materials. The Agreement would allow the building to contain one primary
         material, ceramic title.

         Signs: Signs are required to be integrated into the building façade or be of complementary
         materials as the building per DCMC Section 9-22-040(H)(2). The Agreement allows for signs
         which do not meet this standard and include neon lighting. Please see page 5 of this report for
         additional details on lighting.

         Windows and Awnings: DCMC Section 9-22-040(I)(3)(b) and (c) requires all awnings to be
         complementary to the color and style of the building on which the awning is located. The



Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                      App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                          3
         proposed awning is a white metal awning and is not a similar material or style.

         Building Placement: All buildings are required to have their main façade face a principle street
         according to DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1). Additionally, DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(5)
         requires buildings to have their main entrances oriented towards the street rather than a parking
         lot. The proposed building entrance would face west, with the principle street to the north of the
         property.

         Generators and Equipment: Per DCMC Section 9-22-050(C)(5)(a) and (b) all generator and
         auxiliary equipment should be kept low to the ground and shall be screened with walls,
         landscaping, and other screening. The Agreement would exempt the property from these
         standards. The building contains some roof screening that will help soften roof top mounted
         equipment, but it may not screen all of it. The concept site plan does not include utility equipment
         so staff is unsure of what ground mounted equipment there may be and how this provision may
         apply.

         Lighting: DCMC Section 9-22-050(E)(1) requires site lighting to be coordinating and
         complement the building. This includes parking lot, wall and pedestrian scaled lighting. Because
         the site is already developed, some of the lighting may remain as is, including parking lot
         lighting. The applicant has a specific lighting plan for the signage, as outlined on page 5 of this
         report.

         Parking and Circulation: Section 9-22-050(F)(1) of the DCMC requires development which
         generate a significant increase in traffic to conduct an analysis of the proposed impact on current
         and future transportation systems. The Agreement would exempt the development from providing
         such analysis.

         Pedestrian Considerations: DCMC requires pedestrian walkways be provided from the public
         sidewalk to the main building entrance and requires a differing roadway material at parking lots
         entrances as a way to slow motorists down per DCMC Section 9-22-050(G)(1) and (3). The
         Agreement would exempt the development from these two standards.

         Signs: Per DCMC Section 9-22-050(I) signs shall be integrated into the overall design of a
         commercial development. The Agreement would allow the signs included in the exhibit of the
         Agreement, and as discussed in the staff report on page 5.

Landscape: The site is currently landscaped and the applicant only plans on modifying those landscape
areas impacted by the development of the new diner. The Agreement would recognize the existing legal
status of the existing landscaping and allow the applicant to provide new landscaping, where needed, in
conformance with the current landscaping onsite. The Agreement specifically approves a deviation, as
allowed in DCMC Section 9-23-030, with the following findings:

         1.        Is consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
                   ordinance;
         2.        Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this chapter to the greatest extent
                   possible and offers alternative methods for addressing the landscape requirement for
                   which a deviation is being requested. Alternative methods may include additional
                   fencing, berming and plant material than what would otherwise be required;
         3.        Will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents;
         4.        Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety;
         5.        Is justified by site constraints; and



Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                       App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                           4
         6.        Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the primary buildings on
                   site and established streetscape.

Signage: The applicant is proposing signage that does not conform to DCMC. Signage modifications
include signs above the roofline, neon signs, wall signs, monument signs, and awning signs. Each type of
sign is discussed below.

         Signs Above The Roofline: Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and Diner corporate signage includes a large
         78 square foot metal ice cream cone which extends above the roofline. DCMC Sections 9-26-
         070(A)(1)(c) and 9-26-120(Q) prohibits any sign from extending above the roofline.

         Neon Signs: DCMC Section 9-26-060(G)(4)(b) prohibits exposed neon lighting. The Agreement
         would allow such lighting as part of the buildings 30’s/40’s diner theme. Neon lighting would be
         located horizontally along the buildings awning and in the wall and window signs and on the
         cone.

         Wall Signs: DCMC DCMC Section 9-26-070(A)(1) allows wall signs at 1 square foot of sign area
         for every one linear foot of building length. The proposed building is allowed 83 square feet of
         sign area on its north and south facades. The applicant is proposing 95 square feet, in addition to
         the 78 square foot ice cream cone sign listed above. The wall signage will contain neon lighting.

         Monument Signs: DCMC Section 9-26-070(A)(2) allows monument signs up to 6-feet in height
         with a maximum sign area of 24 square feet in size. DCMC further limits change panels to 50%
         or less of the sign. The proposed monument sign is 6-feet 4-inches in height and 32 square feet in
         size. In addition, the change panel section of the sign is 62% of the sign.

         Awning Signs: DCMC Section 9-26-070(A)(6) limits signs on awnings to no more than 20% of
         the awning. The rear building elevation has an awning sign that is 59% of the awning.

Lighting: The Agreement would allow the lighting depicted in the Agreement exhibits and exempt those
lights from the city’s lighting standards, DCMC Chapter 9-20. Specifically, the plans call for standard
internally illuminated sign lighting on the monument sign and neon lighting on the remainder of the signs.
No other site lighting has been included in the Agreement and any other new lighting installed on site
would have to comply with DCMC.

Criteria For Approval. DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of an
Agreement. It does, however; contain a list of items that are required as part of an Agreement, as found in
DCMC Section 9-5-200(C). This section depicts the required materials for such requests as:

         C.       Procedure: All development agreements, upon proper execution, shall be recorded with the
                  respective County Recorder's Office, shall run with the land, and shall be binding on all
                  successors in the ownership of the affected property. A development agreement shall
                  contain, at a minimum, the following:
                   1. A legal description of the land subject to the development agreement.
                   2. The restrictions or conditions to be attached to the property including development
                       standards and the provision of public facilities.
                   3. The configuration of the project as shown on a project master plan.
                   4. A statement of the benefits and value the development agreement will have for the
                       City as a whole, including, but not limited to, assurances of design standards,
                       dedication and improvement of open space, parks, trails, amenities, or infrastructure
                       such as public rights-of-way or utilities.



Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                       App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                           5
                   5. The time frames for performance by the parties.
                   6. A description of the various City approvals required before the commencement of
                       construction and other procedures that will be required after approval of the
                       development agreement.
                   7. Provisions for enforcement of the terms and conditions of the development
                       agreement.
                   8. Provisions for making amendments to the development agreement.
                   9. The time limitation of the agreement.
                   10. Such other terms as may be proposed and agreed to between the City and developer
                       or subdivider.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Agreement submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Agreement
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Agreement
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request and make a decision based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans outlined in the Agreement meets the intent, goals, and
                   objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
         2.        The application complies with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
         3.        The proposed development plans will not be deleterious to the health, safety, and general
                   welfare of the general public nor the residents of adjacent properties.
         4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed Agreement does not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper
                   City Municipal Code.
         2.        The proposed Agreement does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical
                   development of the area.




Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                     App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                          6
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the development agreement, as requested by Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and
Diner for Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement, application DA-704-2019, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 14, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the development agreement, as requested by Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen’s Frozen
Custard and Diner for Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement, application DA-704-2019,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 14, 2020 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the development agreement, as requested by Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen’s Frozen Custard and
Diner for Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement, application DA-704-2019, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated January 14, 2020.




Nielsen’s Frozen Custard                                                                   App. # DA-704-2019
Development Agreement Request                        7
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The property is part of a larger commercial shopping center. While the proposed business
               does have heavy traffic flow on their busy days, it is not out of line for a popular
               commercial development.
       2.      Many of the proposed deviations could be applied for separately with a site plan
               application, including parking and site design. There are a few deviations requested
               which are not standard and would not be allowed outside of the development agreement
               process, including signage.

Fire Review.

       1.      The Draper City Fire Department has no issues with the Agreement. However once a Site
               Plan application is submitted the fire department will be required to review it at that
               point.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Site improvements will be approved through the site plan approval process following
               approval of the Agreement.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT E
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                   MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                 FOR
                   NIELSEN’S FROZEN CUSTARD & DINER




                          _______________, 2020




Last Update Date              Draper City Contract #   Page 1 of 30
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


Steven L. Nielsen
177 East Oakridge Drive
Bountiful, Utah 84010


                          MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                        FOR
                          NIELSEN’S FROZEN CUSTARD & DINER

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (the “MDA”) is made and entered

into as of the _______________ day of ____________, 2020 (the “Effective Date”) by and

between Draper City, a Utah municipality (the “City”) and Steven L. Nielsen, an individual

(“Master Developer”).

                                           RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer owns and is developing the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Development Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other things,

redeveloping the Property from a vacant bank building to a popular 30s/40s style diner that has

drawn a lot of attention at Master Developer’s other restaurants and is known as Nielsen’s Frozen

Custard & Diner. The location of the Nielsen’s Frozen Custard & Diner will also benefit the City

by spreading out the commercial businesses within the City.


Last Update Date                          Draper City Contract #                         Page 2 of 30
          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA.

          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et

seq.

          G. The Property is zoned Community Commercial (“CC”).

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                 TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and all Exhibits are hereby incorporated into

          this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

               1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

               § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

               1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

               of this MDA.


Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                        Page 3 of 30
               1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

               1.2.4. Buildout means Master Developer has obtained the certificate of occupancy

               for its Nielsen’s Frozen Custard & Diner restaurant on the Property.

               1.2.5. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

               1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

               various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

               certain aspects of the development of the Project.

               1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

               applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

               MDA.

               1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA.

               1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

               1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

               1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

               City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

               comments or “redlines” by City staff.

               1.2.12. Development means the development of the Property pursuant to an approved

               Development Application.




Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                           Page 4 of 30
               1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of the Project, including, but not necessarily limited to any permit, certificate or other

               authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

               1.2.14. Development Plan means the conceptual layout and plans for the

               construction of a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard & Diner building and improvements on

               the Property which shall be substantially consistent with the South Jordan Nielsen’s

               Frozen Custard & Diner and which Development Plans are attached hereto and

               incorporated herein as Exhibit “B”.

               1.2.15. Master Developer means Steven L. Nielsen, and his assignees or transferees

               as permitted by this MDA.

               1.2.16. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

               Exhibits.

               1.2.17. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

               required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.18. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

               Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

               review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

               fully set out in this MDA.

               1.2.19. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

               plural Master Developer and the City.

               1.2.20. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.




Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                            Page 5 of 30
               1.2.21. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

               pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

               other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

               1.2.22. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Master

               Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

               1.2.23. Zoning means the CC zone for the Property adopted by the City.

               1.2.24. Zoning Administrator means the designated Zoning Administrator as

               defined in Section 9-4-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code.

               1.2.25. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

               adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

               the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Development Plan and this MDA. Development of the

          Project shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to

          the extent that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Development

          Plan and this MDA. To the extent any of the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future

          Laws, or the Development Plan conflict with the terms of this MDA, the terms of this

          MDA shall control.

          2.2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Project on the Property shall consist of

          the development of a Nielsen’s Frozen Custard & Diner restaurant and necessary

          improvements, which shall be constructed in a manner reasonably consistent with the

          Development Plans, attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit “B”.

Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                           Page 6 of 30
          2.3. Parking. Based upon the Declaration of Covenants, Restrictions, and Easements

          dated October 23, 2003, the Property meets the requirements set forth in the Draper City

          Municipal Code (the “DCMC”) Section 9-25-050(D) to use the neighboring parcel for

          shared use parking and meets the parking requirements for the Property’s specific use.

          2.4. Design Standards. The Development, consistent with the Developmental Plans,

          will provide exceptional design in the built environment and preserve the quality of life

          within Draper City. Pursuant to DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), the Development meets the

          following criteria needed for obtaining a deviation from the design standards: (1) the

          variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable Development

          Plan or ordinance; (2) The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design

          in cases which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor

          structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased project;

          (3) The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern,

          which utilized façade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F and

          its original design is designed by a licensed architect; and (4) the amount of primary

          materials used for a façade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the minimum

          required amount. Therefore, the following deviations are hereby approved:

               2.4.1. DCMC Section 9-22-040(A): The City acknowledges the uniqueness of the

               Building, and although it may not be comparable to the buildings or development

               close by as it relates to its character or design, the City will allow the older diner style

               design.

               2.4.2. DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(1): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-040(F)(1), the
Last Update Date                               Draper City Contract #                             Page 7 of 30
               Building may have a minimum of two (2) colors per elevation.

               2.4.3. DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(2): The color utilization of black and white shall

               be considered in compliance for this Section.

               2.4.4. DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a),

               the Building face shall have a minimum of one (1) primary material.

               2.4.5. DCMC Section 9-22-040(H)(2): The signs for the Building as set forth in the

               Development Plans comply with Section 9-22-040(H)(2).

               2.4.6. DCMC Section 9-22-040(I)(3)(b) and (c): The window awnings for the

               Building as set forth in the Development Plans comply with Section 9-22-040(I)(3)(b)

               and (c).

               2.4.7. DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-050(A)(1), the

               placement of the Building does not have to have the main façade facing the principal

               street to which it has frontage.

               2.4.8. DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(5): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-050(A)(5), the

               placement of the main entrance does not have to be oriented toward the street.

               2.4.9. DCMC Section 9-22-050(C)(5)(a) and (b): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-

               050(C)(5)(a) and (b), the City recognizes that some equipment will be located on the

               roof of the Building and not low to the ground. In addition, exhaust systems shall be

               allowed to protrude above the equipment.

               2.4.10. DCMC Section 9-22-050(E)(1): The Building’s use of lighting that is attached

               to the Building and sits under the overhang is considered compliant with this Section.
Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                         Page 8 of 30
               2.4.11. DCMC Section 9-22-050(F)(1): Master Developer shall not be required to

               provide an analysis of the proposed development’s impact on the current and future

               transportation system, and methods to control traffic.

               2.4.12. DCMC Section 9-22-050(G)(1) and (3): Notwithstanding Section 9-22-

               050(G)(1) and (3), the existing roadway already in place on the Property is sufficient

               and Master Developer shall not be required to meet the requirements in Section 9-22-

               050(G)(1) and (3).

               2.4.13. DCMC Section 9-22-050(I): Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the

               placement of the signs as set forth in the Development Plans is not considered visual

               clutter and are appropriate locations for the signs.

          2.5. Landscape. The landscape for the Project shall stay substantially consistent with the

          already existing landscape on the Property. To the extent the Project’s landscape does

          not meet the Landscape and Screening requirements set forth in DCMC Section 9-23-010

          et seq., the City finds that the proposed Project’s landscape plan meets the deviation

          requirements set forth in DCMC Section 9-23-030, in that the landscape plan (a) is

          consistent with the purpose of DCMC Section 9-23-010 et seq., any applicable

          Development Plan or ordinance; (b) reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of

          DCMC Section 9-23-010 et seq. to the greatest extent possible and offers alternative

          methods for addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being

          requested; (c) will not adversely affect neighboring property owners or residents; (d) will

          not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public safety; (e) is justified by

          site constraints; and (f) is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of
Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                            Page 9 of 30
          the primary buildings on site and established streetscape.

          2.6. Signage. Notwithstanding DCMC Sections 9-26-060(G)(4)(b), 9-26-070(A)(1), 9-

          26-070(A)(2), 9-26-070(A)(6) or any other code to the contrary, signs consistent with the

          signs described in the Development Plans, including but not limited to the size, total

          square feet of signs per wall, distance of projection of sign from wall, location and signs

          with exposed neon shall be permitted. In addition, notwithstanding DCMC Sections 9-

          26-120(Q) and 9-26-070(A)(l)(c), the Ice Cream Cone shall be allowed to extend above

          the roofline, in the same manner as other Nielsen Frozen Custard & Diner buildings.

          2.7. Lighting. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in DCMC Section 9-20-010 et

          seq., the lighting design set forth in the Development Plans, attached hereto and

          incorporated herein as Exhibit “B”, are approved and are in the benefit of the health,

          safety and welfare of the city and the Project.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Development Plan except as

          specifically provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to

          Master Developer “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and

          pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:
Last Update Date                            Draper City Contract #                            Page 10 of 30
               3.2.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

               agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

               3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;



               3.2.3. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

               imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

               and entities similarly situated;

               3.2.4. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, or similar

               construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the

               APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control

               Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

               recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

               and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

               welfare;

               3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

               Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

               portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

               adopted pursuant to State law;

               3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,


Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                          Page 11 of 30
               and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

               Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

               Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

               or

               3.2.7. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

               land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The terms of the MDA shall be binding upon the Parties as of the

Effect Date and shall terminate upon the earlier of (1) three (3) years from the Effective Date or

(2) upon Buildout. Notwithstanding the above, so long as Master Developer provides written

notice no later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the three (3) year time period,

Master Developer may elect to extend this agreement for an additional two (2) years.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of

          Applicant the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to

          Outsource the review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is

          processed on a timely basis. If the Parties determine that Outsourcing is necessary to

          ensure the timely processing of the Development Application then the City shall

          promptly estimate the reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good

          faith consultation with the Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a


Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                             Page 12 of 30
          City Consultant). If Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the

          Outsourcing based on the City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance

          with the City the estimated differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with

          having the work Outsourced. Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the

          provision by the City of an invoice (with such reasonable supporting documentation as

          may be requested by Applicant) for the actual differential cost (whether by way of paying

          a City Consultant or paying overtime to City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall,

          within thirty (30) calendar days pay or receive credit (as the case may be) for any

          difference between the estimated differential cost deposited for the Outsourcing and the

          actual cost differential.

          5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

          addressed.

          5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar


Last Update Date                            Draper City Contract #                           Page 13 of 30
          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by this

          MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City review

          pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by City ordinances

          or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from the list of qualified

          proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least three (3) qualified

          proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and timeliness of such review may

          be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and reasonable costs being the

          responsibility of Applicant.

          5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.5.

          5.6. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.7. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the


Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                            Page 14 of 30
          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.8. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               5.8.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

               Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:

                                  (i)     the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines

                                  and stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                  (ii)    right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering

                                  or vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                  (iii)   interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                  necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their

                                  intended purpose of the Development Standards, and

                                  (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

               5.8.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                            Page 15 of 30
               Party paying 50% of the fees. The Parties shall provide the chosen mediator with a

               review of the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue. The chosen

               mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar days, review the positions of the parties

               regarding the mediation issue and promptly attempt to mediate the issue between the

               parties.If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the mediator may notify the

               parties in writing of the resolution that the mediator deems appropriate. The

               mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the parties.

          5.9. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

               5.9.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The Parties shall provide the chosen arbitrator with a

               review of the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue. The chosen

               arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar days, review the positions of the parties

               regarding the arbitration issue and render a decision. The arbitrator shall ask the

               prevailing party to draft a proposed order for consideration and objection by the other

               side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and consideration of such objections, the

               arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon both parties. If the arbitrator


Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                            Page 16 of 30
               determines as a part of the decision that the City’s or Applicant’s position was not

               only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably and not in good faith then the

               arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the arbitrator’s fees.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Default.

          7.1. Notice. If Master Developer or the City fails to perform their respective obligations

          hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a Default has

          occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party.

          7.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               7.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

               7.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

               Default; and

               7.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

               7.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          7.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes


Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                          Page 17 of 30
          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          7.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 9.6:

               7.4.1. Law and Equity. Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 9.6, all rights

               and remedies available at law and in equity, including, but not limited to, injunctive

               relief and/or specific performance.

               7.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

               with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

               7.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

               licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

               case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

               development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

               cured.

          7.5. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.



          7.6. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          7.7. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA


Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                           Page 18 of 30
          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to a Party shall be that of specific performance.

     8. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     Steven L. Nielsen
     Nielsen’s Frozen Custard & Diner, Inc.
     177 East Oakridge Drive
     Bountiful, Utah 84010
     stevenlnielsen@yahoo.com
     801-292-1996 801-674-7479

     With a Copy to:

     David R. Nielsen
     570 West 2600 South
     Bountiful, Utah 84010
     801-949-5067

     To the City:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
     David Dobbins
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     David.dobbins@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500

     With a Copy to:

     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
Last Update Date                            Draper City Contract #                       Page 19 of 30
     Draper, UT 84020
     Mike.barker@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500


          8.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

               8.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service, or

               by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

               delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

               of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

               notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

               8.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.

               8.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid, by

               First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

               by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

               Section.

     9. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended to

be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.
Last Update Date                              Draper City Contract #                           Page 20 of 30
     10. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     11. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein and which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.

          11.1. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to

          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          11.2. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed


Last Update Date                            Draper City Contract #                           Page 21 of 30
          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

          proposed assignee.

          11.3. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          11.4. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.

          11.5. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of Master Developer

          proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development obligation owed

          to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured or in the process

          of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the City to accept an

          assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as provided in

          Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          11.6. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by


Last Update Date                             Draper City Contract #                           Page 22 of 30
          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

          provisions of Section 2.

     12. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     13. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

     14. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     15. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     16. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various


Last Update Date                           Draper City Contract #                            Page 23 of 30
departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be Steven L. Nielsen. The

Parties may change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be

available at all reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this

MDA and the development of the Project.

     17. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     18. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     19. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     20. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     21. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “C”, shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit

“C” shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

     22. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City


Last Update Date                          Draper City Contract #                          Page 24 of 30
Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Resolution No.

___ adopted by the City on the ______ day of ___________, 2020.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                               CITY
Steven L. Nielsen                              Draper City

_______________________                     _____________________
By: Steven L. Nielsen                       By: ___________,
                                            Its: City Manager
Date: ____________             Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:              Attest:

__________________                             __________________
City Attorney                                  City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                                   :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the            2020 personally appeared before me ___________who being by me duly
sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision of the State of
Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City Council
and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                               __________________________________
                                               NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date                          Draper City Contract #                           Page 25 of 30
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the       2020 personally appeared before me Steven L. Nielsen who being by me
duly sworn, did sign and execute the foregoing instrument.

                                                      ______________________________
                                                      NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date                      Draper City Contract #                       Page 26 of 30
                   TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                Development Plan
Exhibit “C”                Vested Laws




Last Update Date      Draper City Contract #               Page 27 of 30
                                    Exhibit “A”
                            Legal Description of Property


LOT 5, OF THE AMERICAN ESTATE MANAGEMENT CORP. COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISION
AMENDED PLAT NO. 1, RECORDED NOVEMBER 14, 2003 AS ENTRY NO. 8893667 IN BOOK 2003P
AT PAGE 353 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS.




Last Update Date                   Draper City Contract #                Page 28 of 30
                     Exhibit “B”
                   Development Plan




Last Update Date    Draper City Contract #   Page 29 of 30
                                                 EXISTING
                                                 DUMPSTER
                                                                                                                                                     19.94'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MONUMENT SIGN




                                                                                       6'            20.25'                   23'
                                                                                                                                                     83'
                                                                                                                                                              2,393 SQ.FT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                             PROPOSED




                                                                                                                                               30'
                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2




                                                                6
                                                                                  3

                                                                              4
                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3




                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                           5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10' PUE
                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                                       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                27°'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: 1" = 10'




                                                                                                                                                                                           CURRENT ZONE: CC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20




                                                                                                                                                                                        1462 E DRAPER PARKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                NIELSEN'S FROZEN CUSTARD & DINER




                      LKM
                      LKM




                                                                        NIELSEN'S FROZEN CUSTARD & DINER                                                                                                                                                                      181 North 200 West, Suite #4
                      DRAWN:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bountiful, UT 84010
                      PROJECT:
                      APPROVED:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Phone 801.298.2236
                                                                                       1462 E DRAPER PARKWAY
                                                                        LOT 5 OF AMERICAN ESTATE MGMT. CORP. COMMERCIAL SUB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              www.Entellus.com
               C400
                          Concept 2B.dwg




CONCEPT PLAN




                                                                        LOCATED IN THE SW 1/4 OF SECTION 28, T.3S., R.1E., S.L.B.&M.                                                                                                                                     TM
                                                                                 DRAPER CITY , SALT LAKE COUNTY , UTAH                                                                                                                        Entellus
                                  16 AUG 2019
                                  16 AUG 2019


                                       1679002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1525

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Convention                 Description
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      48 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dimension showing English units (in
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1220                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36         inches unless otherwise specified)
                                                                                                                                   6.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     915
   13                                                          6.4                                                                                   1             13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 above the line and SI units (in
                                                                                                                                                                                      24 min                                                                                                                                                                                                        48 min                                                                                                                                                                                            millimeters unless otherwise specified)
                                                                                                                                   6.4                                                 610                                                                                                                                                                                                              1220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6        below the line
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          base                                                                                                                       30 min                                                                                                                                                                                  1525                                           150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       760                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dimension for small measurements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36 min                                                                                                                  (a)                                           (b)                                                              36 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           915                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    915
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              forward                                        parallel
                                                                                                                                                                                                12 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                   305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33-36        dimension showing a range with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         840-915      minimum - maximum

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          min         minimum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          max         maximum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20 max
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >20-25 max                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >          greater than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  510-635
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           >          greater than or equal to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               24 min                      <          less than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  610
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <          less than or equal to
                                                                                                X > 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                boundary of clear floor space or
                                                                                                      305
        12 max                       12 max                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           maneuvering clearance
           305                        305
                                                                     X > 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           centerline
                                                                      305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a permitted element or its extension
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10 max                                                               10 max                                      > 10-24 max                                                       (j)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           255                                                                    255                                          255-610                                         latch approach, push side                                        (k)
                       (a)                                                            (b)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             direction of travel or approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (a)                                              (b)                                                                                        latch approach, push side,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     door provided with closer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a wall, floor, ceiling or other element
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cut in section or plan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a highlighted element in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                24 min                                                  24 min
                                               18 min                                                                     12 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         610                                                          elevation or plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22 min                                                                                                                                         610
                                                 445                                                                        305                                                                                                                                                                                                      560
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42 min                                                                                                                            560
                                                                                                                                                                                                          36 min                                                             1065
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      location zone of element, control or
                                                                                                                                                                                                            915                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       feature

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (h)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (e)                                                                                                                                                                         latch approach, pull side                                             (i)
                       (a)                                                                                                                                                                    (d)                                                         hinge approach, pull side                                                                                                                                                                                                                         latch approach, pull side,
            front approach, pull side                                                                                                                                              hinge approach, pull side                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                door provided with closer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (f)
                                                                                (b)                                                   (c)                                                                                                                                                                         hinge approach, push side                                               (g)
                                                                     front approach, push side                          front approach, push side, door                                                                                                                                                                                                                    hinge approach, push side, door
                                                                                                                      provided with both closer and latch                                                                                                                                                                                                                 provided with both closer and latch




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12 min
                 32 min                                       32 min                                   32 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  305
                   815                                          815                                         815                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22 min                                                                  24 min                                                                      445                      X>8                                                 X>8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           560                                                                                                                                                                      205                                                  205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                610


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  X>8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (c)                                                        (d)
               (a)                                         (b)                                       (c)                                               (a)                           (b)                                   pocket or hinge approach                                    stop or latch approach                                                             (a)
           hinged door                                sliding door                              folding door                                    front approach                 side approach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       pull side                                                       (b)                                                  (c)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    push side                                  push side, door provided with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   both closer and latch

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42 min              42 min                   36 min            36 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1065                   1065                 915                915
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 max
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100
                                                                                                                                                                  8 min
                                                                                     24 max                                                  24 max                205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X < 48                                 X < 48
                                                                                          610                                                  610                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1220                                      1220
                                                                                                                    48 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (a)                                          (b)
                                                                                                                     1220                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AREA OF                                                                                                                                                               180 degree turn                              180 degree turn
                       9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REFUGE                                                                                                                                                                                                               (Exception)
                       230                                                                                                                                                                9 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AREA OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REFUGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5 max                 15 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      125                380
                                                                                                                                                                                             230



            6 max                    17-25                                                                                                                                                                    25 max
                 150                 430-635                                                                                                                     11 min                                            635
                                                                                                                                                                  280
   (a)                                         (b)                                                                                                                           (a)                                           (b)
elevation                                     plan                                                                                                                        elevation                                       plan




                                                                                                                                                                          18 min
                                                                                                                                                                            455


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       39 - 41                                                                           36 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       990 - 1040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           24 min              915                12 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18 min




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            54 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        455




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            610                                    305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1370
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12 max
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          305
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             42 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1065
    16-18                                   17-19
     405-455                                430-485
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  transfer
        (a)                                (b)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    side
    wheelchair                         ambulatory                                                                 60 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        60 min                                         60 min
    accessible                       accessible water                                                                                                                             60 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1525                                        1525
                                                                                                                                                                                   1525                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (a)                                       (b)
   water closets                         closets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7-9                                                                    adult wall hung                  adult floor mounted water closet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          180-230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   water closet                      and children's water closet




                                                                                   partition                               partition
alternate
door                                                                              6 min                                    6 min                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1   2   3          7    8    9
location                                                                            150                                     150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        345                                345                                                                    10 max                                                                 20 max                             4   5   6          4    5    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        255                                                                    510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7   8   9          1    2    3
                             4 max                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *   0   #          *    0    #
                              100                                                          9 min                                   12 min                                               6 min
                                                                                                230                                    305                                                150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (a)                (b)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17 max                                                                                                                                                                                                         12-key             12-key
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35-37                                                           430
                                                                                                                                                 6 min                                                                           890-940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ascending         descending
                                                                                                                                                     150

                                                                                     (a)                                  (b)                                       (c)
                                                                                  elevation                            elevation                                   plan                                                                                                                  (a)                             (b)
                                                                                    adult                              children                                                                                                                                                    wall hung type                     stall type




                                     48 min                                                                        48 min
                                                                                                                    1220                                                                                     18 min
                                       1220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  455


                                                                                                                                                                                                         centered on
                                                                                                                                                                                                         tactile characters

                                         (a)                                                                        (b)                                                                         18 min                                                                      MEN                    not in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   pictogram
                                                                                                                                                                                                   455
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   field



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42 min                       42 min                                     36 min                  36 min
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1065                           1065                                    915                    915
                                                                       48 min
                                                                        1220

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         X < 48                                                             X < 48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1220                                                                 1220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (a)                                                                     (b)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        180 degree turn                                                         180 degree turn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (Exception)
                                                                            (c)
NFP
      Draper, Utah
      Steve / Doug Nielsen
        2-08-19
                                                            8’-0’’




                              18’’




                                                            32 sf

                              30’’                                                                    6’-4’’
                                                            20 sf




                                                                                                           6'-4"
                               4’’



                              24’’



      Scale
              3/4’’ = 1foot




                                     Internally Illuminated Monument Display
                                     All metal / aluminum construction
                                     White Lexan faces with clear acrylic hinged faces
                                     White LED lamp internal illumination
                                     Full color digitally printed graphics
                                     Set direct burial on concrete with a 4’’ diameter
                                     steel pipe support. Remove existing monument sign and dispose




NFP
                                                                                           Draper Utah                Mark
                                                                                               Steve / Doug Nielson   Mark
                                                                                            2-13-19
                                                                        16’-0’’ fascia
                                    3/8’’ scale                             12’-0’’


                                         16’’ (N)
           Painted graphic detail


                                                                                         56’’
                                        35’’ (F)
           Drive Up




20’-0’’




                                      6’-2’’




          NFP
                                                    CUSTOMER APPROVAL      DATE
                                                                 16’-0’’ fascia
                                3/8’’ scale                          12’-0’’


                                      16’’ (N)


                                                                                  56’’
                                      35’’ (F)




                                                                                         20’-0’’




                                                 6’-2’’


  Painted graphic detail




NFP
                           CUSTOMER APPROVAL              DATE
                                                                                                                     197-C

                                                                                                                     196-C
                               8’-10’’                                                                               1215-C
                                                                           1’-10’’

            Painted graphics




  18’-0’’
                                                                                            Painted graphic detail




                                         Tan (220-39)
                                          / White vinyl detail




NFP
                                                                 CUSTOMER APPROVAL   DATE
                                                     30’-0’’




                                                                            20’-0’’




                                                                                                               EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                    Scale 1/4’’ = 1 ft.

                                       18’-6’’
                                                                                                        28’-0’’ x 17’-0’’ = 476 sq. ft.
                                                                                                        476 sq. ft. x 5% = 23.8 sq. ft. allowed
                                                                              12’’ Fascia

                 Scale 1/2’’ = 1 ft.



                                                                            1.25 aluminum backing with natural aluminum ﬁnish
 14’’ X 222’’ = 21.5 sq. ft.                                                15mm Turquoise neon reading “& Diner”
average
                                                                            15mm Rose neon reading “Nielsens Frozen Custard”
                                                                             Mount on the east elevation as shown with remote transformers




      NFP

                                                 CUSTOMER APPROVAL   DATE
                    Exhibit “C”
                    Vested Laws




Last Update Date   Draper City Contract #   Page 30 of 30
