                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                               April 14, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 23, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:      City Initiated 2020 Q1 – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.:    TEXTMAP-975-2020
         Applicant:          Draper City
         Project Location:   Citywide
         Current Zoning:     Citywide
         Acreage:            Citywide
         Request:            Request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending
                             Draper City Municipal Code Titles 9 and 17 for the purpose of amending
                             general regulations regarding special event temporary signage, general
                             subdivision standards, driveway depth standards, freeway frontage sign
                             zones, assembly and repair home occupation uses, and streetlight standards.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment. These text amendments have been
initiated by the City and are being proposed in order to update code, make clarifications, and to propose
common sense standards. They cover various topics and sections within the Land Use and Development
Code and the Subdivision Ordinance within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC).

The following staff report analyzes the proposed changes by specific section. A full copy of the changes
can be found in Exhibit B of this report. In the changes, text that is blue and underlined are additions, text
that is red and crossed out are deletions and text that is black is not being altered. The page numbers from
Exhibit B have been provided after the section numbers within the staff report for reference purposes.


ANALYSIS

DCMC Section 9-3-040 Definitions: Exhibit B Page 1
A new type of use for home occupations is being proposed, Assembly and Repair, Limited. A new
definition to the code is proposed for this new use. Assembly and Repair, Limited will allow small scale
repair services and assembly business to operate out of the home, such as computer repair or packaging
type businesses. The definition excludes auto and small engine repair, and prohibits any business that




City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                                  App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                                1
creates noise, odor, vibration, or includes materials or quantities of materials that the Fire Marshal or
Building Official classifies as dangerous or hazardous.

DCMC Section 9-8-010 Zone Establishment: Exhibit B Page 1
The City Council approved the new MARF (Major Freeway Arterial Frontage) zone on August 27, 2019.
The new zoning designation was erroneously left out of the list of commercial zones in the Zone
Establishment section. The proposed changes will add the MARF zone to this table.

DCMC Section 9-8-020 Zone Purposes: Exhibit B Page 1
The City Council approved the new MARF (Major Freeway Arterial Frontage) zone on August 27, 2019.
The new zoning designation purpose statement was erroneously left out of the list of commercial zone
purpose statements. The proposed changes will add the MARF zone to this zone purpose section of the
code.

DCMC Section 9-10-075 Allowed Driveways: Exhibit B Page 2
The availability of guest parking within residential neighborhoods has been limited in neighborhoods that
do not contain driveways, even if the development complies with the minimum parking standards within
code. Staff has evaluated the issue and determined that the problem is not that there isn’t enough guest
parking, but that when there isn’t a driveway residents utilize all the guest parking spaces, making them
unavailable for guests and resulting in a shortage of parking. The proposed code change will require all
driveways within single-family zones to be at least 20-feet deep, exclusive of sidewalk, in order to ensure
that they are deep enough to be utilized for parking.

DCMC Section 9-17C-030 Development Standards: Exhibit B Page 3
The proposed change will affect the South Fork Estates Residential Special District (RSD-3 South Fork
Estates) and clarify that street lights shall comply with City streetlight standards and Rocky Mountain
Power requirements. The RSD currently lists that street lights shall be acorn in style but does not
reference the City’s standards for an acorn style street light. The code also lists Utah Power, instead of the
current company name of Rocky Mountain Power.

DCMC Section 9-25-060 Number of Parking Spaces: Exhibit B Page 3
As stated above, guest parking in residential zones can be limited in neighborhoods without driveways.
The proposed changes to DCMC section 9-25-060 will stipulate that tandem parking spaces may count
towards the required resident parking, but shall not be counted towards the guest parking requirement.

DCMC Section 9-26-080 Temporary Signage: Exhibit B Page 3
Special events in the city are allowed temporary signage with their event permit. A special event permit
holder is allowed up to 50 signs and they are allowed for a total of 30 days per event, and are encouraged
to be placed on City property. The proposed changes will modify the allowed number of signs to 35, limit
the posting period to a total of 21 days per event and limit which City properties signs can be posted on.
The Parks and Recreation Department will determine which City properties are appropriate for temporary
signage and provide special event applicants a map designating where signs may be posted. In addition,
the changes will require signs for the same event to be at least 70 yards apart and limit posting signs for
the same event to once in a six month period.

DCMC Section 9-26-090 Areas of Special Designation: Exhibit B Page 4
The sign code allows for larger tower signs then is normally allowed for properties located along the
freeway frontage roads. There are two changes to this code section. The first will provide clarity in the
code. In order to qualify for freeway frontage signs, a property has to qualify for a tower sign under the
regular sign code provision. The proposed code modifications will add the code section for regular tower
signs, DCMC Section 9-26-070(A)(3), so there is no confusion as to what is required. The second change



City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                                  App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                                2
will add the MARF (Major Freeway Arterial Frontage) zone into the list of zoning districts that are
eligible for freeway frontage signs. The MARF property is already designated as a being in a freeway
frontage zone in the Exhibits in DCMC Section 9-26-140.

DCMC Section 9-32-030 Development Standards: Exhibit B Page 6
As previously stated, guest parking in residential zones can be limited in neighborhoods without
driveways. Chapter 32 of Title 9 regulates two-family and multi-family developments. The changes to
this section will require all garages to be placed at least 20-feet from a public or private roadway or alley,
and include a driveway that is at least 20-feet deep, excluding sidewalks. It will also require all alleyways
to be at least 26-feet wide in conformance with fire code. In addition, driveway and garage parking spaces
will not be allowed to count towards the minimum guest parking count requirement.

DCMC Section 9-34-050 Conditional Use Home Occupations: Exhibit B Page 7
The new use category added to the definitions section of the code, Assembly and Repair, Limited, will be
added to the list of allowed home occupations, subject to a Conditional Use Permit.

DCMC Section 17-5-020 Lots: Exhibit B Page 8
The Subdivision Ordinance requires all plats to include the buildable area on lots, or building envelops.
This designates the required setbacks on each lot. The proposed change would eliminate this requirement.
The inclusion of required setbacks on subdivision plats has resulted in confusion in the past. The setback
standards each lot is held to is based on the zoning designation of a property and the setbacks listed in the
Zoning code. It is possible for there to be a conflict between what the plat shows and what the Zoning
code requires if there has been a change in code. It also provides opportunity for errors if the plat does not
show the correct setbacks. This change will eliminate confusion and the possibility of errors in the future.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(e)(2) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                 title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                 determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                 overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                 practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works



City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                                3
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
                  general plan;
         2.       The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                  ordinance;
         3.       The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is
                  sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4.       The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                  title or the general plan;
         5.       The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined
                  not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall
                  community benefit; and
         6.       The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban
                  planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  city's general plan;
         2.       The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                  ordinance;
         3.       The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there
                  is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4.       The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of this title
                  or the general plan;
         5.       The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to
                  be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
                  benefit; and



City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                                App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                                4
         6.       The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of
                  urban planning, design, and engineering practices.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2020 Q1 Text Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-975-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated April 14, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2020 Q1 Text
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-975-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2020 Q1 Text Amendment,
application TEXTMAP-975-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated April 14, 2020.




City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                               5
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review Committee, do
acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff report has been reviewed by the
Committee and has been found to be appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission
and/or City Council.


                                                                                                            Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                         Digitally signed by Brien Maxfield                                                 DN: C=US,

Brien Maxfield           DN: C=US, E=brien.maxfield@draper.ut.us,
                         O=Draper, OU=PW-ENG, CN=Brien Maxfield              Jennifer Jastremsky E=jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us,
                                                                                                 O=Planning Division, CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                         Date: 2020.04.17 08:46:07-06'00'                                                   Date: 2020.04.16 16:36:37-06'00'
__________________________________                                           __________________________________
Draper City Public Works Department                                          Draper City Planning Division

                                                                                                            Digitally signed by Mike Barker
                         Digitally signed by Don Buckley
                                                                                                            DN: cn=Mike Barker, o=Draper City,

 Don Buckley
                         DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,
                         O="Draper City Fire ", OU=Fire Marshal,
                         CN=Don Buckley
                                                                             Mike Barker                    ou=City Attorney,
                                                                                                            email=mike.barker@draper.ut.us, c=US
__________________________________
                         Date: 2020.04.16 17:15:58-06'00'
                                                                             __________________________________
                                                                                                            Date: 2020.04.16 16:49:42 -06'00'

Draper City Fire Department                                                  Draper City Legal Counsel

                          Digitally signed by Reid Gerritsen
                          DN: C=US, E=reid.gerritsen@draper.ut.us,

 Reid Gerritsen           O="City of Draper ", OU="Building Department
                          ", CN=Reid Gerritsen
__________________________________
                          Date: 2020.04.17 09:50:36-06'00'


Draper City Building Division




City Initiated 2020 Q1                                                                                              App. # TEXTMAP-975-2020
Text Amendment Request                                                   6
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed modifications will eliminate concerns that have arisen during the
               application of the current code.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
    EXHIBIT B
LEGISLATIVE DRAFT
9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

ASSEMBLY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer assembly
or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items. Assembly,
fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are produced one at a
time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not include mass production of
goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small enough to be carried by one
individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The business shall not create noise, odor,
vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of the home. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials, or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or
building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.


9-8-010: ZONE ESTABLISHMENT:
C.     Commercial zones:
         CN           Neighborhood commercial
         CC           Community commercial
         CR           Regional commercial
         CG           General commercial
         CI           Interchange commercial
         CBP          Business/manufacturing park
         CO1          Professional office
         CO2          Professional office
         O-R          Office residential
         TC           Town center
         DC           Destination commercial
         CS           Commercial services
         MARF         Major freeway arterial frontage


9-8-020: ZONE PURPOSES:
C.     Commercial Zones: Commercial zones are established to provide areas where a
       combination of business, commercial, entertainment, office, and related activities may be
       established, maintained and protected. Commercial zones are intended to provide a
       suitable environment for those commercial and service uses which are vital to the
       economic base of the city.
       11.     The Major Freeway Arterial Frontage zone is located at approximately 14875
               South Minuteman Drive bordered by Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista.
               Railroad lines abut the property on the south. The size, unusual shape and unique
               location of the property allows for a master planned project with a potential for
               office, commercial, multiple-family dwellings, and other uses. The property has
               immediate proximity to major transportation corridors such as Interstate-15
               Frontage Road (Minuteman Drive) and almost direct access to I-15 at the 14600
               South interchange. The property has a distinct topography and exposure to
               freeway traffic and is located away from single-family residential neighborhoods


Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                      April 16, 2020                                Page 1 of 8
9-10-075: ALLOWED DRIVEWAYS:
Any legally created parcel in a residential zone shall be allowed at least one driveway access to a
public street. The first or primary driveway access shall be approved as part of the site plan
review associated with the issuance of a building permit. Additional drive approaches may be
approved for parcels in the RA1, RA2, R3, R4, R5 and RH Zones that meet the following
criteria:

A. Standards:
    1. The width of the primary driveway shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in width and shall be
    at least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.

   2. If a residential lot has two (2) frontages and one of those frontages is located on a collector
   or arterial street, the primary driveway shall be located on the residential street only. No
   driveway access will be permitted onto the collector or arterial street.

   3. On a residential lot where the only access from the lot is to a collector or arterial street, a
   second curb cut may be permitted to create a horseshoe or half-circular driveway (see figure
   1(b) of this section).

   4. All driveways shall be located a minimum forty feet (40') from a street intersection, as
   measured from back of sidewalk to edge of driveway.

B. Secondary Driveway: A secondary driveway may be allowed under the following conditions:
    1. The width of the secondary driveway shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') and shall be at
    least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.

   2. Spacing between the primary driveway and the secondary driveway shall be a minimum
   ten feet (10'), not including flares (see figure 1 of this section).

   3. Lot frontage shall be a minimum sixty feet (60').

   4. Secondary driveway must be no closer than five feet (5') from the adjacent property line,
   as measured from property line to edge of driveway (see figure 1 of this section).

C. Corner Lots: A secondary driveway may be allowed under the following conditions:
   1. Lot frontage on the side of the lot that contains the secondary driveway is sixty feet (60')
   or greater.

   2. The secondary driveway is located a minimum forty feet (40') from the street intersection,
   as measured from back of sidewalk to edge of driveway (see figure 1(c) of this section).

   3. The secondary driveway does not access a collector or arterial street (see figure 1(d) of this
   section).

   4. The secondary driveway does not exceed twenty four feet (24') in width and shall be at
   least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.



Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                       April 16, 2020                                  Page 2 of 8
9-17C-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

6. Lighting: All public street lighting shall meet Draper City streetlight standards and comply
with Rocky Mountain Power requirements. be acorn style luminary, town and country, with a
decorative pole to meet Utah Power standards. Property owners shall determine the light series
and schedule.


9-25-060: NUMBER AND TYPE OF PARKING SPACES:




F. Tandem Parking Spaces: Tandem parking spaces shall count toward required parking as only
    a single parking space per pairing. Both spaces in a tandem pairing may be counted toward
    required parking in the following instances:

     1. Multi-family dwellings with garages of at least the minimum dimensions of standard
        parking spaces may count towards resident parking requirements but shall not count
        towards guest parking requirements; or

     2. Valet parking services.


9-26-080: TEMPORARY SIGNAGE
B. Special Events Signs: Temporary signs for events that have been issued a special events
    permit may be erected as allowed in this subsection.

 1. Such signs shall be permitted in all zones following application for and approval of a
    temporary signage permit.

 2. Such signs are subject to the following requirements:




Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                      April 16, 2020                                Page 3 of 8
     a. Such signs may be maintained posted for a period not to exceed thirty twenty one (21)
         (30) days, including days after the event.
     b. Special Eevent Ssigns shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size, and shall not
         have more than two (2) faces, and must be securely attached to the ground by posts with a
         stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the sign.
     c. Fifty (50) Up to thirty five (35) signs are allowed per event.
     d. Placement of such signs on public property, exclusive of rights of way is strongly
         encouraged.
     ed. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be required as a
         part of an application for a temporary signage permit.
      e. Special Event Signs for the same special event shall be placed no less than seventy (70)
         yards apart along a street.
      f. Special Event Signs may be placed no more than one time in six months for the same
         event.
      g. Special Event Signs shall not be placed in area’s designated by Draper City as “not
         permissible” on specific Draper City owned property.


9-26-090: AREAS OF SPECIAL DESIGNATION:
In an effort to complement and enhance the experience and aesthetics of certain areas of the
community, these areas have been identified to have unique signage allowances. The signage
allowances outlined for these special districts shall not be construed as cumulative to the
allowable signage identified elsewhere in this chapter, but rather the exclusive signage allowable
within the areas identified herein.

B.     Freeway Frontage Road: The intent of this subsection is that the areas of the community
       directly oriented and related to the I-15 freeway warrant specialized standards for signage
       where those properties possess limited and unique visibility constraints due to higher
       speeds of traffic and differences in elevation between businesses and passersby. Any
       freestanding business or group of businesses shall be allowed the signs described in this
       subsection. In addition to subsections B1a and B1b of this section, to qualify for such
       signs the business or group of businesses, if located on more than one lot or parcel, must
       have a common driveway and unrestricted cross access between the adjoining lots or
       parcels.
       2. Businesses or a group of businesses within a single development which meet the
           qualifications of subsection B1 of this section and would otherwise qualify for a
           tower sign in accordance with Section 9-26-070(A)(3) may be allowed one of the sign
           types in this subsection. Businesses located within Freeway Frontage Zones A, B, C,
           and D may have such sign, providing the property on which they are located has a
           minimum two and one-half (2.5) acres and a minimum four hundred (400) linear feet
           of lot frontage.

               a.     One monolithic sign, where:
                      (1)   The maximum height shall be forty feet (40') in the freeway
                            frontage road designated area A; the maximum height shall be
                            thirty feet (30') in the freeway frontage road designated area B; the



Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                      April 16, 2020                                Page 4 of 8
                            maximum height shall be seventy feet (70') in the freeway frontage
                            road designated area C;
                    (2)     The ratio of width to height does not exceed 1:4.5;
                    (3)     The sign is internally lit; and
                    (4)     The sign face area shall not exceed three hundred sixty (360)
                            square feet, nor two hundred (200) square feet measured around
                            the lettered copy within the sign face; or

             b.     One tower sign where:
                    (1)   The maximum height shall be seventy feet (70') in the freeway
                          frontage road designated area C; the maximum height shall be
                          forty feet (40') in the freeway frontage road designated area A; the
                          maximum height shall be thirty feet (30') in the freeway frontage
                          road designated area B; the maximum height shall be sixty five
                          feet (65') in the freeway frontage road designated area D;
                    (2)   The tower sign's structural support shall be a minimum width of
                          five feet (5') or a minimum of thirty six inches (36") each for signs
                          with two (2) or more structural supports located near the outside
                          width dimensions of the sign;
                    (3)   The structural supports of the tower sign shall be finished
                          architecturally with detailed masonry products exclusive of
                          concrete masonry units, brick, or stone, which shall be
                          architecturally and aesthetically designed to match the building or
                          development to which it is associated;
                    (4)   The tower sign shall be finished with architectural or decorative
                          elements that serve to relate the sign to the building or
                          development to which it is associated; and
                    (5)   The sign area shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in
                          the freeway frontage road designated area C; the sign area shall not
                          exceed two hundred (200) square feet in the freeway frontage road
                          designated area A; the sign area shall not exceed one hundred
                          (100) square feet in the freeway frontage road designated area B.
                          The sign area for area D shall not exceed four hundred fifty (450)
                          square feet, which may include electronic sign area.

      3.     Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances outlined within this
             subsection and which have frontage on two (2) public rights-of-way shall be
             allowed one monument sign along the nonfreeway frontage street.

      4.     Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed wall
             signs outlined in subsection 9-26-070A1 of this chapter.

      5.     Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed
             banner signs not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet. All other
             provisions outlined in subsection 9-26-080D of this chapter regarding banner
             signs shall apply.



Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                    April 16, 2020                               Page 5 of 8
       6.      Businesses or a group of businesses within a single development which meet the
               qualifications of subsection B1 of this section, which are located in the CBP, CR,
               CI, CC or MARF Zones, and which have two and one-half (2.5) acres and have a
               minimum of four hundred (400) linear feet of lot frontage shall be allowed one
               electronic message sign. Such signs shall be subject to the provisions of
               subsection D1 of this section.

       7.      Signage outlined in subsections 9-26-070A4, A5, A6, and A7 of this chapter shall
               be allowed as outlined in those subsections.

       8.      Other signs: Signage allowable under this section and section 9-26-100 of this
               chapter shall be allowed with the added requirements of this subsection.


9-32-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
C. Building Placement And Orientation: Multiple-family projects shall have a strong relationship
    to the public realm that will enhance the safety and efficiency of the project while improving
    the character of the neighborhood.

   2. Setbacks for multiple-family structures shall be within the range of five feet (5’) to twenty
   feet (20') for living spaces and twenty feet (20’) for garages as measured from the edge of the
   public or private right of way (ROW). The edge of the public or private right of way can be
   defined as the back of the sidewalk and the setback is measured from the building facade.
   Horizontal variation in setback between units shall be required.
      a. Setbacks should be established relative to existing setbacks in the vicinity.
      b. For projects with front loading garages and driveways, the garage door shall be set back
      at least twenty feet (20') from the ROW or alley and shall include a to allow for tandem
      driveway parking with a depth of at least twenty feet (20’) excluding sidewalks.
      c. The setback range shall be fifteen feet (15') to thirty feet (30') from the ROW when:
          (1) The proposed structure is three (3) or more stories.
          (2) The project is adjacent to an existing or proposed collector street as shown on the
          master transportation plan.
      d. Development on corner lots shall consider the provisions of subsection 9-27-080C of
      this title in which the sightline at an intersection shall not be obstructed.
   3. Multiple-family projects with frontage on a public street shall orient units toward the
   public street.
      a. Multiple-family projects shall promote an active street frontage on all public streets.
      The creation of a second frontage road or courtyard area on the street frontage, in which
      units may be oriented toward, can also be an acceptable option for projects located on
      collector roads.
      b. Carports shall be prohibited adjacent to the public right of way.
   5. Resident parking accommodations are encouraged to be located behind multiple-family
   structures. This includes rear loaded garages with alleyways, auto courtyards and parking
   lots.




Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                      April 16, 2020                                Page 6 of 8
      a. Alley accessways shall be a minimum of twenty-six feet (26’) wide and shall comply
      with all fire code width standards as may be required in the fire code adopted by the State
      of Utah and Draper City should accommodate a width of at least twelve feet (12') from
      the midline of the ROW to the garage door in order to permit a feasible vehicle turning
      radius for garage access.
   6. Required guest parking shall be evenly distributed throughout multiple-family projects and
   easily accessible.
   7. Driveway and garage parking shall not be included in the development’s guest parking
   count requirement.
   8.7. On street parking, parallel or diagonal, is encouraged to be provided on private streets as
   a substantial portion of the project's parking requirement. This is meant to create flexible
   parking spaces for units in which residents may have more or less vehicles than what is
   required for each unit.
   9. 8. Landscaping strips in the middle of driveways (between tire lines) should be used to
   break up expanses of impervious surface.
   10. 9. Parking areas shall be broken into smaller parking clusters of twelve (12) spaces or
   less, using landscaping and pathways.


9-34-050: CONDITIONAL USE HOME OCCUPATIONS:

The following home occupations may also be established in any agricultural, residential,
commercial zone subject to the use table regulations of applicable zones, subject to the
development standards listed in section 9-34-040 of this chapter, and subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit pursuant to the requirements of section 9-5-080 of this title. Uses listed in
this section may also necessitate an additional conditional use permit subject to section 9-34-
060 of this chapter:

Assembly and repair, limited.
Cottage business.
Daycare, limited.
Grooming service. Conditions:
  A. Animal being groomed must be current on the following vaccinations: rabies, parvovirus,
     distemper, and kennel cough.
   B. Facility shall be subject to periodic inspection by city staff.
   C. Animal being groomed shall be kept indoors the whole time in a controlled environment.
   D. Up to two (2) animals shall be allowed on the premises at a time for grooming purposes.
Personal care service.
Personal instruction service.
Preschool, limited.




Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                        April 16, 2020                                Page 7 of 8
17-5-020 LOTS:
K. Building Envelopes: Building envelopes shall be required to be shown on all final plats
designating the buildable area on each lot. Building envelopes shall take into account minimum
setback requirements, utility and access easements, physical constraints, such as steep slopes,
waterways, wetlands, faults, and any other features deemed significant by the Zoning
Administrator or Planning Commission. The accurate identification of the building envelope in
the field is the responsibility of the developer. A certificate of survey, prepared by a registered
land surveyor, licensed in the State of Utah, may be required by the Zoning Administrator.




Q1 2020 DCMC Changes                       April 16, 2020                                 Page 8 of 8
