                                        ORDINANCE NO. 1454

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE AND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE
         DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO DEVELOPMENT ACCESSS
         POINTS AND PAPER APPLICATION SUBMISSIONS.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts and the subdivision of property; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the Land Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been established
to provide regulations concerning subdivision of property within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code and
the Land Development Code to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code regarding development access points
and paper application submission; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development
Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

    Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that the
    proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development
    Code in regards to development access points and paper application submissions: 1. The proposed
    amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan. 2. The proposed
    amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance. 3. The proposed
    amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a
    modification to the zoning ordinance. 4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with
    another section or part of this title or the general plan. 5. The potential effects of the proposed
    amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
    welfare and represents an overall community benefit. 6. The proposed text amendment implements
    best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.




Ordinance No. 1454                                   1                                City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk
                                                                                                 Text Amendment
        Section 2.     Revision. The Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE _____ DAY OF ____________, 2020.

                                                           DRAPER CITY


                                                           _____________________________
                                                           Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                                 YES                       NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1454                                    2                                 City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk
                                                                                                   Text Amendment
                                          EXHIBIT A

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS: & 17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

SECONDARY ACCESS ENTRANCE: See definition of Access Point.

ACCESS POINT: A two-way roadway access into a subdivision or development that provides
unrestricted access to residents, the public, and emergency services. This definition does not
prohibit a gated community entrance that is designed to service residents, guests, and the general
public.


9-27-150: PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY:
  A. Maximum Number Of Accessing LotsUnits: In any residential subdivision, a private right
of way shall provide access for no more than twenty (20) single-family lotsunits. Private rights of
way may also be approved for two-family units, townhome units, and multiple-family dwelling
developments, consistent with chapter 32 of this title.
  B. Width And Cross Section: The minimum right of way width and cross section design of a
private right of way shall be:
    1. Twenty-four feet (240') wide for two (2) to five (5) single-family residential lotsunits;
    2. Twenty six Thirty-one feet (3126') wide for six (6) to ten (10) single- family residential
lotsunits; and
    3. Thirty-sevensix feet (367') wide for eleven (11) to twenty (20) single-family residential
lotsunits.




   F. On Street Parking: On street parking shall be prohibited on a private right of way cross
section less than twenty six feet (26') wide. Parallel parking may be allowed on one side of a
private right of way if the cross section of asphalt is at least twenty six feet (26') wide. Parallel
parking may be allowed on both sides of a private right of way if the cross section of asphalt is at
least thirty-two feet (320') wide. Enforcement of on street parking restrictions shall be the
responsibility of the owners of the private right of way.

    J. Expansion Of Existing Subdivisions: Residential subdivisions approved prior to 2010 and
which are accessed by a private right of way may add more residential lotsunits consistent with
subsection B of this section. Deviations from adherence to the curb, gutter and sidewalk
requirements in subsection B of this section in such existing subdivisions may be granted by the
city council planning commission if:
    1. The existing subdivision has six (6) or more lotsunits; and
    2. The increase in the number of lotsunits does not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the
existing single-family homes within the subdivision.


9-32-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
D. Site Plan, Mobility, And Street Treatment: Pedestrian and automobile circulation shall flow
in a logical manner and integrate neighborhood street connectivity.
2. The number of road connections and access points for a multiple-family project shall comply
with the following design standards and number of access points: shall be proportional to the
number of units according to the international fire code.
    a. Two-family units and townhome unit development: To encourage connectivity, multiple-
    family projects shall connect to public street networks and adjacent private street networks at
    all logical points.
       i.    One access point is required for up to thirty (30) units.
       ii.   Two access points are required for up to thirty-one (31) units.
   b. Multi-family unit developments, other than townhome unit dwellings:
       i. One access point is required for projects with up to one hundred (100) dwelling
             units.
       ii. Two access points are required for projects with one hundred and one (101) or more
             dwelling units.
   c. Multiple-family projects shall connect to existing public street networks or stubs.
   Connection to a private street network or stub is encouraged and shall include a perpetual
   cross access easement. Connection to a private street network or stub shall count as an access
   point if it allows for unrestricted access to the public and residents.
          db. Projects should strive to emulate the existing neighborhood street grid to provide
   more opportunities for street connectivity.


17-5-030: STREETS:
G. Subdivision Access and Dead End Streets: Dead end streets or subdivisions with one access
point Dead end streets shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family lots or units, two-family
units, and townhouse units, or up to one hundred (100) multi-family units, not including
townhouse dwellings. even though it may be intended that they eventually be extended to
connect with other streets in a manner which would eliminate the dead end. The provision of a
stub road which will eliminate the dead end in the future shall not permit additional units.
Additional lots and dwellings units may be served by such a dead end street at such time as its
dead end nature is eliminated. On such temporary dead end streets, a satisfactory temporary
turnaround area and recordable easement shall be provided at the end of the dead end street and
shall thereof to remain and be available for public use so long as the dead end exists. The City
may require iImprovements shall to be installed in temporary turnaround areas subject to
engineering standards and the International Fire Code. Access points and dead end streets shall
comply with all applicable codes. The Planning Commission may approve the platting and
construction of collector and arterial streets which are dead ends.


9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and processed as
    provided in this subsection:
  1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator in a form
     established by the administrator, along with any fee established by the city's schedule of
     fees. The application shall include the following information:
     d. A single paper copy set on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11” x 17”) and an identical
        single electronic copy set of development plans showing the information required in
        subsections D1d(1) to D1d(6) of this section. The information required by each
        subsection shall be shown on separate sheets,. Plans shall be drawn at a scale no smaller
        than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan sets shall be prepared, stamped
        and signed by the professional, licensed with the state of Utah, who prepared the
        drawings or is professionally responsible for the drawings content, including the
        engineering, landscaping and architectural drawings.


9-19-090: GEOLOGIC HAZARD STUDIES AND REPORTS REQUIRED:
Any applicant requesting development approval on a parcel of land within a geologic hazard
study area or where there are known or readily apparent geologic hazards and the area is not
depicted on the geologic hazards study area maps, shall submit to the city five two (52) paper
copies and one electronic copy of a site specific geologic hazard study report.


9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:
 F. Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to
contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and
construction will add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.

 6. Sample Board: All projects shall submit color elevations that call out the specific building
   material type and color. The Zoning Administrator may require a sample board containing
   actual samples of all exterior surface materials in order to verify quality of material and
   conformance with the standards found within this section. including roofing materials, in all
   the colors that will be used. No photos shall be permitted.
17-2-020: SUBMISSION:

The subdivider shall submit one (1) 11-inch by 17-inch paper copy and an identical single
electronic copy of the proposed subdivision concept plan to the Draper City community
development department. The proposed concept plan shall be professionally prepared and
include the following items:


17-3-020: APPLICATION AND FEES:
A subdivider shall file an application for preliminary plat approval with the community
development department on a form prescribed by the city, together with one (1) paper copy on
eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") drawings and an identical single an electronic copy of
the preliminary plat, and the application fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule. No
application shall be scheduled for hearing before the planning commission until all required
information has been received and reviewed by the city staff.


17-4-020: FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES:
C. The subdivider shall file an application for final plat approval with the Community
    Development Department on a form prescribed by the City, together with one (1) paper copy
    on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") and an identical a single electronic copy of the
    proposed final plat, and associated final construction drawings required in section 17-3-030
    of this title.
