                                         Development Review Committee
                                             1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                Draper, UT 84020
                                                 August 28, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: September 10, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us

Re:       King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp. – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
          Application No.:  USE 1038-2020
          Applicant:        David and Daphne Garcia
          Project Location: Approximately 13313 S Laurel Park Ln.
          Current Zoning:   RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size) Zone
          Acreage:          0.32 Acres (Approximately 13,939 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a Home Occupation in
                            the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size) zone
                            regarding the provision of esthetician services from the home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.32 acres located on the east side of Laurel Park Lane at approximately 13313 S. Laurel
Park Lane (Exhibit C). The home was built in 2005 as part of the Steeplechase Phase 1 subdivision. The
property is currently zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size). The applicant
is requesting that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the provision of
esthetician services from the home and for customers to be allowed to come to the home.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low/Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is characterized as
follows:




King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                       App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                  1
The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
units per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the
purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote
and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of
animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning abuts the subject
property on all sides.

Home Occupation. One of the homeowners/applicants is a state licensed master esthetician who is
employed by a local plastic surgeon’s office as a master esthetician and would like to be able to offer
services at her home in the evenings and weekends on a limited basis. The business will occupy the area
of one of the basement bedrooms and an adjacent bathroom. The bedroom will be set up as a spa room.
Clients would come to the home on an appointment only basis, one client at a time. Client parking (if
needed) would be provided on the existing driveway. The applicant’s response to the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit questions can be found in Exhibit F.

The City Code outlines development standards applicable to all home occupations. Those standards are



King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                        App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit              2
found in Section 9-34-040 of the DCMC. Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject
request, are as follows:

          A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in
             the dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary
             provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

               The applicants own and live in the home where the business will be located and will not have
               any outside employees. One of the applicants is a licensed state licensed esthetician and will
               be the one providing the services.

          B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
             continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

               Upon approval of the conditional use the applicant will be required to submit an application
               and obtain a business license prior to commencing operations.

          C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed
             in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

               The homeowner who is a state licensed esthetician will be personally operating this home
               occupation.

          D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
             city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
             may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

               The applicant will be required to comply with this section if/when the need arises. Inspections
               are part of the business license review process.

          E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty
             (250) square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

               The applicant has indicated that they keep only a small inventory of product used in the
               business on hand and will not exceed these limits.

          F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
             dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall
             be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home
             occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
             occupation.

               There will be no exterior modifications made to the home. All business activities will take
               place inside the dwelling in a room and bathroom set aside for the business purposes (Exhibit
               (G)). Necessary parking can be provided on the existing driveway with no alterations needed.

         G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
            offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
            interference, or noise shall be prohibited.




King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                             App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                 3
               The operation of the business will not create any offensive odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
               magnetic interference, or noise that would interfere with the peace or enjoyment of others
               outside of the property.

          H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
             primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt
             the normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not
             more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home
             occupation.

               The space being occupied by the business will only include one of the 6 existing bedrooms
               and an adjacent bathroom. The total area utilized will be less than 25% limit.

          I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

               The applicant has indicated that no signs will be placed on the property related to the
               business.

          J.   Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
               vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
               located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for
               drop off traffic.

               Parking will be on the existing driveway. Any pedestrian or vehicular traffic associated with
               the business will look and feel no different than what already exists in the residential
               neighborhood. Clients will arrive and depart via the front entry, consistent with the same
               manner that friends or neighbors would typically call upon or visit residents of any home in
               the neighborhood.

          K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles
             or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally
             be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

               Only the owner’s personal vehicles will be on the property in addition to the passenger
               vehicle of the client.

          L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
             activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

               This business will not store anything outdoors.

          M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
             facility shall not be considered customers.

               Customers may be allowed to come to the home under the provisions of DCMC 9-34-060:
               Alteration to Standards. Specifically with this conditional use permit the applicant is seeking
               to have one customer at a time come to the home on an appointment only basis.

          N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess
             of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.




King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                              App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                  4
               There will not be an increase in demand for public utilities associated with this business that
               would exceed amounts customary for residential use.

          O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
             primary structure on the property.

               All business activities will take place inside the primary dwelling structure.

          P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
             conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
             subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
             Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
             respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if
             the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.

               This business fits within the allowable list of conditional use home occupations as a personal
               care service. The property is not a multifamily property and therefore is not subject to those
               provisions.

          Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
             and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
             provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
             26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth
             in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage
             food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
             agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with
             these regulations.

               This business does not provide child care, is not a cottage food production operation, and is
               not a food related home occupation.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request
is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:




King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                                App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                  5
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                  the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                  development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                  drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                  protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                  noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                  the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed to
              determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.

Public Comments. Written public comment received is included as Exhibit H.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Home
Occupation Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and
             Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all
             buildings on the site, including permitting.



King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                           App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                6
          2. That the home occupation business be conducted as described, on an appointment only basis,
             serving one customer at a time.
          3. That parking associated with the use shall be provided on the driveway of the property.
          4. That the home occupation maintain compliance with all other ordinance requirements for
             home based businesses, including but not limited to the storage of materials and limits to that
             area of the dwelling utilized for the home occupation.
          5. Any signage shall comply with DCMC Chapter 9-26 and a sign permit shall be obtained
             before the installation of any signage.
          6. The business comply with all local, county, and state licensing standards, including the Salt
             Lake County Health Department.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate anticipated
             detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
             anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by David and Daphne Garcia, representing themselves for the King and Laurel Aesthetics
Corp., application #USE 1038-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report date August 28, 2020.


Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by David and Daphne Garcia, representing themselves for the King and Laurel
Aesthetics Corp., application #USE 1038-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 28, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions.


Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by David and Daphne Garcia, representing themselves for the King and Laurel Aesthetics
Corp., application #USE 1038-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report date August 28, 2020.




King and Laurel Aesthetics Corp.                                                           App. # USE 1038-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit                7
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.

        1. Desired alteration under DCMC 9-34-060 from DCMC 9-34-040(M) to allow for customers
           to come to the home has been noted. Conditional use approval is for this alteration is
           required.
        2. Compliance with DCMC 9-34-040 (H) that not more than 25% of the dwelling to be used as
           part of the home occupation, and DCMC 9-34-040(E) pertaining to limits on storage of
           materials, shall also be followed as part of any approval for the home occupation.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

We have reviewed the subject home occupation conditional use permit (USE) application according to the
standards of the Draper City Municipal Code. It is our understanding that the applicant is requesting a
conditional use permit to operate an esthetician business at their residence. Accordingly, we offer the
following comments related to the engineering findings, including the following:

        1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
           utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The number of trips
           generated by potential employee(s), the owner, and customers, from one customer at a time
           for services, will not have a detrimental impact to the area due to the nature of the residence
           and the availability of onsite parking at the subject site. The subject residence has a three-car
           driveway. We recommend the employees and customers be required to park in the garage and
           driveway as part of the USE requirements. On-street parking could cause access problems
           along Aintree Ave. all year due to the split design of the road and its traffic volume, and on
           both streets during the winter or in poor weather due to the location in Steeplechase. Given
           the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant impact to
           traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;
        2. Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking be onsite.
           Onsite parking is especially important during winter months when there may be excessive
           snow on the street and where on-street parking may be a safety issue; and
        3. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
           persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or improvements in
           the vicinity.

Fire Division Review.

Thank you for submitting your plans for the King and Laurel Aesthetics project. Please review all
comments contained in this letter. This project SHALL, be designed to meet all requirements of the 2018
International Fire Code. Please contact the Fire Marshal Don Buckley at (801) 824-3714 for any and all
inspections or questions. Comments:
         1. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address
            numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall
            contrast with their background.
2. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
   meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
   location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
   every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so
   that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.
             EXHIBIT B
         LEGAL DESCRIPTION


    LOT 112, STEEPLECHASE PHASE 1.




\
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
 EXHIBIT G
FLOOR PLANS
    EXHIBIT H
PUBLIC COMMENTS
From:            Louise O"Reilly
To:              Todd Draper
Subject:         Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
Date:            Sunday, August 30, 2020 12:12:45 PM


APP # USE 1038-2020

My husband and I strongly disapprove of this application, but we will be out of town
September 10 and cannot participate in the live discussion. We live in this development and
prize it's residential character. This application is for the premises directly across the street
from ours, and on the main access road into the development which already has
significant traffic flow. Allowing one exception which would permit business traffic to a
home, with the potential of customer visits every half hour to hour during a regular business
day is undesirable and unacceptable. Once one exception is allowed, the flood gates are open.
If the premise is that this would be for a brief but undetermined time due to the Covid
restrictions, that is a slippery slope. Residential is residential and customer traffic is anathema
to that concept. This is not the same as a home office with no customer visits.

William and Louise O'Reilly
1836 E Aintree Ave
Draper
