Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: August 18, 2020
Re: HBA Plaza at Draper – Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 2.55 acres located at approximately 38 West 13775 South. The property is currently zoned M1 (Light Manufacturing) . The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment be approved to allow for existing office building to be added to the CSD-136 (136 Center Commercial Special District) zone.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their July 23, 2020 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council on a 5-0 vote for all three applications.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
4. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
5. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
6. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
7. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
8.  The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-5-060(D).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
4. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
5. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
6. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
7. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
8.  The proposed amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-5-060(D).  ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1450- Text Amendment 8/12/2020 Cover Memo Ord 1451- Zoning Map Amendment 8/12/2020 Cover Memo Ord 1452- Land Use Map Amendment 8/12/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 8/12/2020 Cover Memo