                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, Utah 84020


                                           STAFF REPORT
                                             August 12, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: August 27, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6522 or travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us


Re:       BLUE STAKES OF UTAH ADDITION—SITE PLAN AMENDMENT REQUEST
          Application No.:  SPR-986-2020
          Applicant:        Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W Architects
          Project Location: Approximately 148 E 13200 S
          Current Zoning:   CR (Regional Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:          Approximately 0.75 Acres (approximately 32,600 square feet)
          Request:          Request for approval of a site plan amendment to add approximately 2,313
                            square feet of commercial space to an existing commercial building and to
                            modify the parking lot to accommodate the addition.


SUMMARY & BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a site plan amendment for approximately 0.75 acres located at
approximately 148 E 13200 S (See Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned CR (Regional
Commercial) Zone. The applicant is requesting that a site plan amendment be approved to allow for the
addition of approximately 2,313 square feet of commercial space to an existing commercial building of
approximately 3,370 square feet and to modify the parking lot to accommodate the addition.

The site currently has a single-tenant building, owner-occupied, that they are seeking to make additions to
in order to provide for additional training and office space. The original site plan (Application JS-2004-
0236) was approved in 2004 by the Planning Commission for the construction of the building and site
development. A minor site plan amendment (Application 130617-148E) was approved in 2013 by the
Zoning Administrator to install a gate at the parking lot entrance along 150 E due to vehicles using the lot
to avoid the intersection at 13200 S and 150 E.

ANALYSIS




Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                               App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                           1
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Community Commercial
land use designation for the subject property (See Exhibit C). This category is characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the CR zoning classification (See Exhibit D). Per Draper City Municipal
Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020, the purpose of the CR zone is to “provide areas where a combination of
destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related uses may be established,
maintained and protected to serve both residents and nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone
include large scale, master planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores,
offices, and various types of high density residential uses.”

The CR zoning designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Regional Commercial land use designation. The CR Zone is not a compatible zoning district for the
Community Commercial land use designation; the compatible zoning districts include: CC (Community
Commercial), CG (General Commercial), CI (Interchange Commercial), and IC (Institutional Care). RA2
(Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) zoning abuts the subject property on the east.
The CR zoning abuts the subject property on the north, south, and west.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant has submitted a site plan showing the layout of the building, landscaping,
parking, etc. The site currently has one building on the northeast corner of lot that has façades that front
the corner in location and design. The remainder of the site is landscaping and a parking lot. The lot is


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                          2
approximately 0.75 acres in size, and the addition will fit into the current building design extending the
southwest portion of the building 25.5-feet.

Site Design or Architectural Standards Modification. The proposed addition meets the zoning
requirements except for the building design requirements. This is due to the fact that the office building
was built in 2004, and predates the current building design requirements. The applicant is seeking
deviations from some requirements so that the additions will be in harmony with the existing building and
façade.

Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for the Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict
compliance with the terms of the Code regarding development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-
030 states that the Planning Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the
design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based on making a minimum of three required findings
in whole. Those findings, according to DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), are that the deviation:

1.        The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
          required in the development code and site plan review.
2.        The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds the
          required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
3.        The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a transportation
          facility.
4.        Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative design,
          traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.
5.        The project is an accredited LEED development.
6.        The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
          ordinance.
7.        The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve
          redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new
          buildings within a previously approved phased project.
8.        Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more than
          the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
9.        The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which
          utilizes facade materials differently than prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and
          is designed by a licensed architect.
10.       The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the
          minimum required amount.

The applicant is required to meet three of the ten criteria above. The applicant states the site meets
deviation requirements 2, 7, and 8 in their deviation submittal. The applicant provided some statements
that shed light on the three deviation criteria mentioned. The following deviations have been requested
along with the applicant’s statement for the request:

         Section 9-22-040(D)(2) – Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
          continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50’) or greater.

          Applicant statement: “The North and East facades will have wall lengths of 91’ 7” each. This
          includes the added length of 18’ to each side. The original façades do not have roofline or parapet
          variations. The additions on the North and East sides have the same parapet height as the existing
          building as designed. We believe that this maintains the integrity of the overall original building
          design. The South and West sides of the building similarly do not have parapet variations to
          maintain the integrity of the original design. The exception is the entrance canopy which is about


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            3
          2’ lower than the rest of the building.”

         Section 9-22-040(D)(4) – Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need
          to be mounted on the roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of equipment that may not be
          fully shielded shall be painted a color which is compatible with the roofing or parapet materials.

          Applicant statement: “The existing building does not have rooftop equipment screening. We are
          adding screening to the two new rooftop units.”

         Section 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) – Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary
          materials. At least seventy-five percent (75%) of each building’s finished face shall be in primary
          materials. Section 9-22-040(F)(4) – Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include
          stucco; EIFS, including specialty finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed
          concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or wood siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and
          other similar features will be considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary
          materials.

          Applicant statement: “The secondary materials used on the building is EIFS and is in excess of
          25% on all facades. The North and East facades of the building have an area of around 32% and
          37% respectively which is brick as a primary materials and the rest of these two facades are EIFS,
          a secondary material with 68% and 63% respectively. The South and West sides of the building
          have large expanses of aluminum storefront and glass with the remaining materials being brick
          and ACM panels as primary material equaling 39% of each façade, and EIFS as a secondary
          material equaling 61% for each façade.”

                                     Primary Material       Primary Material   Secondary         TOTALS
                                     (Brick)                (ACM)              Material (EIFS)
                    East Elevation   37%                    0%                 63%               100%
                   North Elevation   32%                    0%                 68%               100%
                    West Elevation   20%                    19%                61%               100%
                   South Elevation   31%                    8%                 61%               100%



         Section 9-22-050(A) – Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and
          the overall effect any development has on surrounding properties. Building placement shall be
          carefully considered as part of the overall development review.
              1. All buildings shall be located with the main façade facing the principal street to which it
                  has frontage.
              2. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each street and give equal
                  treatment to each.
              3. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent architectural feature of
                  greater height or emphasis at the corner where the two (2) public streets meet.
              4. (deviation not requested for this item)
              5. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking in cases where
                  buildings can be located adjacent to the public right of way.

          Applicant statement: “Original building placement is based upon Draper City Municipal Code
          from 2004. The building’s main facades (south and west) face into the interior of the lot; the back
          of the building faces the principal street. This was allowed at the time it was built in 2004. The
          new additions also face into the interior of the lot. The primary entrance and reception areas


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                 App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                             4
          remain intact with the new additions. This building is located on a corner. The North and East
          facades face to the street and are the back of the building. The existing building and the new
          additions main facades do not face to each street on the corner. As noted, the building was built in
          2004 when design standards were different. Based on this information, it is not possible to have
          an entrance on the street side. We do not have a taller architectural feature at the corner where the
          public streets meet. It is not possible to have an entrance on the street side. Parking is located at
          the interior part of the lot.”

Circulation. There are two entrances to the property, one from 150 East and the other from 13200 South.
Vehicles are able to turn around and drive straight through the property with no encumbrances. The
ingress and egress points will not be modified with this request.

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. With the addition, the site will have new landscaping around the
addition and in the parking lot above the 20% overall site requirement. The submitted landscape plan has
the following coverage calculations for the lot:

Building Area:                 17.1%
Paved Area:                    43.2%
Landscaped Area:               39.7%

Parking. The number of parking spaces that are required for this site are 23 spaces, and the site plan
shows that the site will have 24 spaces with the new addition.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan Amendment Review
request is found in Section 9-5-090(E) and (H). These sections depict the standard of review for such
requests as:

SITE PLAN 9-5-090(E) and (H)
E.     Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
       1.     The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
              approved.
       2.     A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
              limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
              materials.
       3.     The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
              plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
       4.     The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
              development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
       5.     The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
              7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
              concerns.

 H. Amendments: Except as may be provided for in this section, no element of an approved site plan shall
be changed or modified without first obtaining approval of an amended site plan as follows:
       1. Alteration or expansion of an approved site plan may be permitted by the Zoning
       Administrator upon making the following findings:
       a. The proposed use is consistent with uses permitted on the site;
       b. Existing uses were permitted when the site plan was approved, or have received a conditional
       use permit;
       c. The proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements of this Code;
       d. The proposed expansion meets the approval standards of subsection E of this section;


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                  App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            5
          e. The site can accommodate any change in the number of people on the site or any change in
          impact on surrounding infrastructure.
          2. If the Zoning Administrator cannot make the findings required in this subsection H, the
          amended site plan may only be approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning
          Commission may only approve an amended site plan after a public hearing that complies with all
          requirements of this code, including section 9-5-045.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from the
Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geotechnical, in working with the Draper City
Building and Engineering Divisions, has completed their review of the Site Plan Amendment submission.
Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the Site Plan Amendment
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
          Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
          on the site, including permitting.
2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of the
          site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General
          Plan.
2.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City
          Municipal Code.
3.        The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development of the


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                 App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            6
          area.
4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
5.        The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
6.        The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to,
          building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
7.        The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11,
          12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
          utilities concerns.
8.        The deviations comply with criterion 2, 7 and 8 of DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).

The findings for denial as are follows:

1.        The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
          General Plan.
2.        The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City
          Municipal Code.
3.        The proposed development does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical development
          of the area.
4.        The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.
5.        The entire site will not be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
6.        The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
          limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
7.        The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
          8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
          and utilities concerns.
8.        The deviations do not comply with the criteria outlined in DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).


MODEL MOTIONS
Deviations: DCMC: 9-22-040(D)(2) Roofline
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for roofline, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve deviation for roofline, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny deviation for roofline, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

DCMC: 9-22-040(D)(4) Equipment Screening.
Sample Motion for Approval



Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                                   App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                             7
I move that we approve the deviation for equipment screening, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for equipment screening, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the deviation for equipment screening, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

DCMC: 9-22-040(F)(3)(a) & (F)(4) Building Materials.
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for building materials, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for building materials, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the deviation for building materials, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

DCMC: 9-22-050(A) Site Design, Building Placement.
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for building placement, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the deviation for building placement, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial


Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                              App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            8
I move that we deny the deviation for building placement, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing
PGA&W Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.


Sample Motion for Site Plan Approval
I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020 and as modified by the findings
and conditions below:

          1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial
I move that we deny the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by Jeffrey Close, representing PGA&W
Architects for the Blue Stakes of Utah addition, application SPR-986-2020, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated August 12, 2020.




Blue Stakes of Utah Addition                                                              App. # SPR-986-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            9
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. That all requirements of Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
       Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site, construction to include permitting.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is required prior to
       Building Permit issuance.

    2. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
       Engineering Division.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-four (24)
        feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.

    2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
       Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
       of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary
       Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

    3. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
       purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
       delivered on building site.

    4. 2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type meaning
       metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous location where they
       will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed every 75 feet of travel. If in
       cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be mounted so that the top is not more than
       five (5) feet above the floor.

   5. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
       plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
       their background.
Notes:
   1. Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any
       person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property
       caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on
       the building property shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                        GRADING AND DRAINAGE SITE PLAN
                            NEWBUILDING ADDITIONS FOR:
 C
1.1




                           BLUE STAKES OF UTAH
                                                                      ARCHITECTS / PLANNERS




                                                         PGA&W ARCHITECTS
      DOCUMENTS
              BIDDING
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                  DESIGN
                             earthwise
                                   LANDSCAPE - IRRIGATION
                                        801-631-7554                                 ARCHITECTS / PLANNERS




    o




            o
o
        o




                        o




                o




                    o




                                        "SHREDDED FIR BARK"
                                        INSTALL 3" DEEP OVER WEED BARRIER FABRIC

                                        1.5" DIA. GRAY "PELICAN POINT" COBBLE ROCK
                                        INSTALL 3" DEEP OVER WEED BARRIER FABRIC

                                        LANDSCAPE BOULDERS - GRANITE BOULDERS
                            18"   30"


                                        6" WIDE CONCRETE MOW CURBS




                                                                                            L
                                                                                           1.1
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                       348




                          EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
                        NEWBUILDING ADDITIONS FOR:
AE
201




                        BLUE STAKES OF UTAH
                                                                  ARCHITECTS / PLANNERS




                                                     PGA&W ARCHITECTS
      DOCUMENTS
              BIDDING
    EXHIBIT H
DEVIATION REQUEST
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

9-22-030: DEVIATION FROM DESIGN STANDARDS:
A. Purpose: In the event an applicant requests a deviation from the development standards of this
chapter and has submitted a project that contains features and excellence in design above and
beyond those required, the planning commission shall have the discretion to amend some or all of
the design standards as long as such deviation is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
policies and development standards pertaining to the applicable zoning district or land use
category as described in this chapter.

B. Deviation Criteria: The planning commission shall take into consideration at least three (3) of the
following criteria in considering a deviation of design standards:

PGAW Response: Note responses below.

1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in excess of what is
required in the development code and site plan review.

PGAW Response: Not applicable.

2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space area exceeds
the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).

PGAW Response: The calculated private landscaping is 38% of the site which is greater than the 20%
municipal code requirement. The provided landscaping is in excess of the requirement by 18%.

3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to a transportation
facility.

PGAW Response: Not applicable.

4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as creative design,
traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass programs.

PGAW Response: Paul Huntsman President of Blue stakes of Utah 811 reported “For years prior to the
COVID-19 concerns, Blue Stakes has had 75% of employees working primarily from home with the other
25% of employees working part/half time from home. Work at home employees would periodically work
from the office during training and other planned and unplanned reasons. Currently all employees are
working 100% from home. After the COVID-19 concerns, we plan on continuing to keep a work at home
level at least as much as it was before, but probably higher.”




                                                                                                  Page 1 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response



5. The project is an accredited LEED development.

PGAW Response: Not applicable.

6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or
ordinance.

PGAW Response: This is a difficult one to answer. We consider our efforts on building these additions to be
consistent with our original design effort of 2004 while providing improvements over the original design
concept while respecting the original 2004 design efforts, but to say they are consistent with this chapter,
master plans, and or ordinance is left to interpretation and ultimately those who wrote and interpret such
stipulations.

7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases which involve
redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or new
buildings within a previously approved phased project.

PGAW Response: The project is an addition to the original 2004 building and the additions designs seeks to
maintain the original design concept in a consistent and compatible way.

8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten percent (10%) more
than the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees or a combination
thereof.

PGAW Response: As previously stated, “The calculated private landscaping is 38% of the site which is
greater than the 20% municipal code requirement. The provided landscaping is in excess of the
requirement by 18%.” The landscaping provides additional planting beds, plants, shrubs and trees and
maintains the original landscaping concept.

9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which
utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040F of this chapter and
is designed by a licensed architect.

PGAW Response: It is hard to define a specific architectural style for this building. The design is consistent
with the period in which it as built. During this time, it wasn’t uncommon to see the use of brick wainscots,
columnar brick elements, EIFS used as a strong design element with cornices and capitols used to provide
accents. The building and its proposed additions were designed by a licensed architect in 2004 and in 2020.

10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than


                                                                                                    Page 2 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

the minimum required amount.

PGAW Response: Not applicable.

C. Request Responsibility: The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning commission the benefit of
amending the standards of this chapter by:

PGAW Response: See responses below.

1. Providing a written description and analysis of the specific development standards to be
lessened. The analysis shall be written by a licensed professional, such as an architect,
engineer or landscape architect;

PGAW Response: Below please find responses to the requirements of design standards and guidelines for
municipal code 9-22-40 and 9-22-50. These responses were prepared by Jeffrey L. Close RA AIA, licensed
architect #135017-0301.

2. Providing a written justification as to why the city should lessen or alter its design standards
indicating any benefit to the city or to the project.

PGAW Response: We have attempted to write responses to all the design standards or guidelines indicating
where we feel we comply and where we feel we do not and then requesting a deviation. Please see
responses below.

D. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve deviations from the development
standards listed in this chapter only if it finds, based upon a finding of facts as stated in subsection
B of this section, that the deviation is in the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and
the project. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
Responses to standards and guidelines following the specific section noted in the Draper City Municipal
Code for both the building and site.

PGAW Response: Responses respectfully submitted. See below.

9-22-040: BUILDING DESIGN:

A. Context: All building designs shall consider surrounding or nearby buildings and developments and
implement design solutions which are sensitive to those nearby buildings and developments. The
review of this requirement shall be based on the following:

PGAW Response: The neighborhood context is as follows. To the North and across the street there is a large
RV Sales business, to the East and across the street is a residential neighborhood consisting of two story




                                                                                                      Page 3 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

homes (the back of the homes face west), to the South in the adjacent property is an RV park, and to the
West in the adjacent property is a single story day care center.

1. The buildings positively contribute to the overall character of Draper City and the neighborhood
in which it is located;

PGAW Response: The existing Blue Stakes of Utah facility is a single-story wood frames structure with a flat
roof design. A simple building that fits into the neighborhood. The building was built in 2004 under different
Draper City design standards. The building has been an important and contributing part of the
neighborhood for 16 years. The additions will add to this theme and provide for the future needs of Blue
Stakes who provide an important service, keeping the community safe when they dig in the great State of
Utah.

2. The buildings reflect the character of surrounding development through use of some similar
positive and desirable features;

PGAW Response: The existing Blue Stakes facility is a simple functional building that fits into the
neighborhood size and style. For example, this building as well as the additions will be a one-story structure
similar to adjacent commercial buildings. The building was built for Blue Stakes in 2004 and they own the
building and the property. The variety of uses and building styles in the area are varied, being residential
and commercial. Commercially the buildings in the area are single- and two-story buildings. The only
adjacent commercial building is a single-story building.

3. The buildings demonstrate imaginative design; and

PGAW Response: The existing building is functional and straight forward. The addition builds on that design
and expands it, providing new design elements, such as the new entrance that is finished with ACM panels,
that add to the design while maintaining and improving on its basic design elements. The design also
includes large windows to bring in light and add to exterior views.

4. Where proposed building designs closely copy or mirror surrounding development, the buildings
vary colors, materials, or architectural elements.

PGAW Response: The existing building is a combination of red brick, light tan and off white colored EIFS,
mill finished aluminum windows and storefront, and clear glass. The additions mimic these features but
include increased storefront and glazing. In addition to these we have added a new entrance element, a
new entrance canopy that is shorter than the adjacent building providing an overall change in elevation and
utilizing aluminum colored ACM panels.

B. Entrances: All building entrances shall be clearly articulated to indicate a transition from the exterior to
the interior of the building. Every main entrance shall have a special emphasis when compared
to the other portions of the building. This shall be accomplished through the use of at least three
(3) of the following near entrances:




                                                                                                     Page 4 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

PGAW Response: The new entrance canopy as noted above has been provided that is finished with an
aluminum composite material panels or ACM. This provides a strong focus on the entrance. This material
will be a natural aluminum finish that is divided into 24”x24” panels to create a patterned grid look and is a
departure and yet is complimentary to the elements of the existing building.

1. A prominent architectural feature that is unique to the overall building design;

PGAW Response: The new entrance canopy as noted above that has been provided is finished with an
aluminum composite material panels or ACM. This provides a strong focus on the entrance. This material
will be a natural aluminum finish that is divided into 24”x24” panels to create a patterned grid look and is a
departure from the elements of the existing building.

2. Complementary yet differing building materials or colors;

PGAW Response: The patterned panels, described above, provide a patterned grid look that is a departure
from the elements of the existing building, yet is complimentary. The ACM panels will fit in nicely noting
that they will have an aluminum finish to them similar to the window frames and storefront framing thus
fitting into the existing building color scheme.

3. Increased use of windows or glass;

PGAW Response: The new entrance canopy includes a new aluminum and glass vestibule that compliments
the rest of the buildings use of aluminum and glass windows and storefront.

4. Pedestrian amenities that may include patios, porches, special paving treatments, seating
areas, or awnings; or

PGAW Response: Entrance area amenities include a small plaza that includes low freestanding walls that
can used as seating. An adjacent triangular landscape area that is inclusive of the freestanding wall that
occur on three sides of the landscaping triangle.

5. Increased landscaping. (Ord. 799, 12-4-2007)

PGAW Response: The requirement for landscaping is 20% of the site. The finished site will be 38%
landscaped. Thus the site will have the requested increased landscaping.

C. Facade Articulation: Buildings designed with completely flat facades and monotone color schemes
are not permitted. All buildings shall demonstrate articulation of all facades.

PGAW Response: The existing building finishes as discussed earlier is brick and EIFS. The brick consists of
wainscots and columnar type elements. The EIFS occurs above the wainscot and between the columnar
elements and is divided into areas with horizontal and vertical reveals. Other EIFS elements include a
cornice which runs around the building on all sides as well as EIFS capitols which occur at the top of each
columnar brick element.




                                                                                                  Page 5 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

1. Horizontal or vertical facade variations shall occur at least every thirty feet (30') or along a
minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal length of buildings with facades one hundred
feet (100') or greater. This shall be accomplished by using methods such as:

PGAW Response: The façades of this building are less than 100’ in length including the length of the new
additions. The buildings longest facades will be with additions 91’7”.

a.   Variation in the surface plane that may include pop outs, bays, and recesses.

PGAW Response: Variation in wall surfaces is minimal in the existing building particularly on the north and
east facades. In these facades the brick veneer wainscot stands proud of the EIFS wall finish by several
inches and the columnar brick elements stand proud of the wainscot by an additional several inches. For
the new additions we have attempted to follow the existing exterior wall elements feeling that it was an
appropriate extension of the existing building design. Please keep in mind that the additions only add 18’-0”
to the length of the North and East facing facades. New walls that face in the West and South directions
have similar variations but have large storefront and glass areas. Additionally, walls facing the South and
West do step in 36’-0” and 18’-0” building increments.

b. Variation in the surface pattern such as arches, banding, and paneling; or

PGAW Response: The existing and new parts of the building do not have arches, banding, or paneling. The
building does have EIFS cornices which do run around all sides of the building and capitol elements of EIFS
that occur at the top of the columnar brick elements.

c. Distinguished treatment of windows, doors, and eaves that may include molding or framing.

PGAW Response: The existing and new parts of the building do not have moldings or framing. These were
not included so we could match the existing in place building elements. Interest is created on the building
with brick wainscots and brick columnar elements and with window opening and reveals cut into the EIFS
wall finish to create a grid pattern. Additionally, we have provided EIFS cornices and column capitols which
we believe are similar to the requested moldings.

2. Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at least one
significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five feet (5') and
whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades one hundred
feet (100') or greater in length. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

PGAW Response: The long walls of the building including additions on the North and East are less than 100’-
0” in length with the longest length being 91’-7”. It is apparent that this requirement then is not applicable.
Please note that on the Southern and Western facades there are steps in the building that are in excess of
5’-0”.

D. Height and Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof height that is compatible
with the building's location, and vary rooflines in order to add architectural interest and avoid the


                                                                                                      Page 6 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

appearance or sense of monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings shall:

PGAW Response: The adjacent property to the South is an RV park, these are of course low single-story
mobile homes as well as RV’s. The adjacent property to the West is a day care center, which is single story
with varied and high parapet walls. The property to the North and across the street is an RV park with 100’s
of RV’s on site that are of similar heights to the mobile homes. There is a 2-story building further west on
that same site, but it is quite a distance away. The properties to the East are residential, most of them are
two story stucco and brick homes. Their backyards face West so there is a significant distance to the homes.
This Blue Stakes building is a small building even with the additions, at 5693 s.f. We have maintained a
continuity of design to the original building with the new additions. The new additions are complimentary
but with added design elements that contain some variations in height with the new entrance being about
2’-0” lower than the balance of the building.

1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning regulations and the height
of buildings within the immediate area;

PGAW Response: Maximum building height in a CR Zone is 45’-0” and this building existing and new
additions does not exceed is 14’-8” in height. Adjacent area buildings vary in height for single and two story
in both commercial and residential, but do not exceed two stories. The adjacent commercial building to the
west is a single-story structure with varying parapets.

2. Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long, continuous, and undisturbed
rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;

PGAW Response: As noted previously the North and East building facades will have wall lengths of 91’-7”
each. This includes the added length of 18’-0” to each side. The original facades do not have roofline or
parapet variations. The additions on these North and East sides have the same parapet height as the
existing building as designed. We believe that this maintains the integrity of the overall original building
design. The South and West sides of the building similarly do not have parapet variations to maintain the
integrity of the original design. The exception is the entrance canopy which is about 2’-0” lower than the
rest of the building.

3. Use similar materials and colors on the back of false fronts, parapets, cornices, or other parts of
the building which extend beyond the roofline or main building so that the building appears
cohesive from all views; and

PGAW Architects: The existing building and new additions has a cohesive color palette on all four sides of
the building utilizing the same materials generally and adding new ACM panels that will have a similar color
to the aluminum windows and storefronts while adding a nice contrasting finish.

4. Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need to be mounted on the
roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of equipment that may not be fully shielded shall be


                                                                                                  Page 7 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

painted a color which is compatible with the roofing or parapet materials.

PGAW Response: The existing building does not have rooftop equipment screening. Deviation Requested.
We are adding screening to the two new rooftop units.

E. Massing: Buildings shall have a composition which clearly relates to surrounding buildings, as well
as the overall scale of the built environment in nearby residential or commercial neighborhoods.
Proper massing reduces the impact of the massive bulk created by large buildings that may not
otherwise relate in scale to surrounding development. Vertical articulation, horizontal articulation,
and multiplane[r] roof[s] and awning designs should be used to mitigate the impact that may occur on
surrounding development and the overall landscape. (Ord. 799, 12-4-2007)

PGAW Response: We believe that the existing building with additions has a mass composition that is
compatible to surrounding buildings and the overall built environment of the adjacent commercial and
residential neighborhoods. The building with additions being a small low single-story building.

F. Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to contribute to
the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and construction will
add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.

PGAW Response: The existing building materials are long lasting material that are in good shape and are
expected to have a long life with appropriate maintenance. Matching materials are being used on the new
additions. New materials include ACM panels that are also expected to have a long life. Brick, EIFS, and
ACM panels are proven products that have a long life.

1. Minimum Colors: A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.

PGAW Response: The North and East sides of the building have three colors. Red brick, light tan colored
EIFS for the field color and an off white EIFS color for the cornice and the capitol elements above the brick
column elements. The South and East sides of the building will have the same color elements and will have
aluminum colored ACM panels that will provide four total colors.

2. Color Utilization: Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within the vicinity
and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.

PGAW Response: Since this is an existing building the color palette is already established; it is earth tones
that fit nicely into the neighborhood.

3. Primary Materials: Brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or concrete fiber composite siding, concrete
masonry units (CMU), metal composite material, and architectural precast concrete are
acceptable primary materials. CMU must be colored and feature decorative or architectural
finishes such as honed, scored, offset or split face. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable
finished building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the
exception of minimal foundation exposure. The following guidelines shall apply when designing a


                                                                                                     Page 8 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

commercial or industrial building:

PGAW Response: The existing buildings primary material utilized is brick; the new additions are also brick
and the new entrance canopy adds ACM panels as a second primary material.

a. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary materials. At least seventy-five
percent (75%) of each building's finished face shall be in primary materials.

PGAW Response: The North and East facades of the building have an area of around 32% & 37%
respectively which is brick as a primary material and the rest of these two facades are EIFS a Secondary
material with 68% & 63% respectively. The South and West sides of the building have large expanses of
aluminum storefront and glass with the remaining materials being brick and ACM panels as primary
material equaling 39% for each façade and EIFS as a secondary material equaling 61% for each facade.
Deviation requested.

Material finish percentages as follow:

                Primary Mat’l – Brick    Primary Mat’l – ACM      Secondary Mat’l – EIFS           Totals
East Elevation         37%                      0%                       63%                       100%
North Elevation        32%                      0%                       68%                       100%
West Elevation         20%                      19%                      61%                       100%
South Elevation        31%                      8%                       61%                       100%

b. When brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized up to one hundred percent (100%)
of the facade material, in which case, no secondary primary material will be required.

PGAW Response: The brick is not used as a 100% finish on this facility, so this item does not apply.

c. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the calculations of primary and
secondary materials.

PGAW Response: Doors, glass, and roofing materials are not used in the calculations above as primary
materials or secondary materials. We know that we do not meet the 75% requirement for primary
materials.

4. Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty
finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or
wood siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and other similar features will be
considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary materials.

PGAW Response: The secondary materials used on the building is EIFS and is in excess of 25% on all
facades. Deviation requested.

5. Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a primary material on buildings
located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification. Some variation in


                                                                                                 Page 9 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

materials along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.

PGAW Response: There is no concrete tilt-up materials used on this facility, so this does not apply.

6. Sample Board: All projects shall submit a sample board containing actual samples of all exterior
surface materials, including roofing materials, in all the colors that will be used. No photos shall
be permitted. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

PGAW Response: We will provide a color board that includes the following samples, matching brick and
ACM panels. Since we do not have a contractor on board yet to have matching EIFS samples made we
provide pictures of the existing EIFS that will be matched once we are under construction. This method was
approved by Jen Jastremsky on 4/8/2020 during a phone call. Please refer to the attached color board.

Pedestrian Considerations: Buildings designed at the human scale effectively relate to pedestrians
and create inviting and hospitable commercial districts that encourage pedestrian activity and
social interaction. All buildings shall consider pedestrians as an integral part of the design.
Additionally, buildings that contain more than one story or that are above twenty feet (20') in height
shall provide a clearly articulated and more detailed base that relates to pedestrians.

PGAW Response: The building is designed at the human scale and does effectively relate to pedestrians and
is not located in a heavy commercial district. Pedestrian and social interaction occurs at a lesser level at this
location and includes employees and some walk-in customers. Most interaction with customers occurs by
telephone or online. Building is just one story and is less than 20’-0” in height at 14’-8” tall.

H. Signs: Signs located on any building facade shall be compatible with the building's overall design.
As an integral design element, signs shall be compatible with the style of the buildings in terms of
location, scale, color, and lettering.

PGAW Response: Owner is to provide their own signs and they are not part of this project. Owner graphics
utilizing the State of Utah with the 811-brand call-in information is to be utilized.

1. The locations for signs on a building's facade shall be planned for as part of the building's
overall design.

PGAW Response: We have anticipated sign locations on the building at the Northeast corner with signs
facing both 150 East and 13200 South. Additionally, a smaller sign is planned on the West facing wall under
the entrance canopy. Existing monument signs on the site are to remain. Signs are to be provided as a
separate contract and permit by the owner.

2. Signs located on facades should integrate similar or complementary materials as the building.

PGAW Response: It is anticipated that the owner is to purchase signs under a separate contract and that
they will be multicolored panel signs that utilize the Owners Brand for 811 and that these will be permitted
under a separate permit.


                                                                                                   Page 10 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

I. Windows: Windows are key to the overall design of a building and the relationship between the
exterior and interior. The majority of windows shall relate to the scale of the person.

PGAW Response: All window on the existing building and the new additions relate to human scale.

1. Windows should be at eye level when possible and provide for transparency into the building.

PGAW Response: Windows and storefront are all at eye level at both the new and existing parts of the
building.

2. Where buildings are adjacent to pedestrian walkways, transparent windows shall be used to
relate the scale of the building and the building's interior to pedestrians. Where transparent
windows may not be desirable, tinted windows, false windows, or glass block shall be used.

PGAW Response: All windows and storefront are glazed with clear glass and are relatable to pedestrians
who are walking by them.

3. Window awnings are an effective way to add detail and variation to a building, emphasize
pedestrian scale windows, and create an exciting and inviting environment. When placing
awnings:

PGAW Response: No awnings are used on this facility.

a. Quality materials shall be used which are durable and are able to withstand extremes in the
weather;

PGAW Response: No awnings are used on this facility.

b. Colors should be complementary to the color of the building on which the awning is located;
and

PGAW Response: No awnings are used on this facility.

c. Styles should be compatible with the architectural features and overall architecture of the
building on which the awning is located. (Ord. 799, 12-4-2007)

PGAW Response: No awnings are used on this facility.




9-22-050: SITE DESIGN:

A. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the overall effect any
development has on surrounding properties. Building placement shall be carefully considered as
part of the overall development review.


                                                                                                 Page 11 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response


PGAW Response: Original building placement is based upon Draper City municipal code from 2004.
Deviation required.

1. All buildings shall be located with the main facade facing the principal street to which it has
frontage.

PGAW Response: For this building facades face south and west, this building faces into the interior of the
lot, the back of the building faces the principal street, this was allowed at the time it was built in 2004. The
new additions also face into the interior of the lot. The primary entrance and reception areas remain intact
with the new additions. Deviation required.

2. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each street and give equal
treatment to each.

PGAW Response: This building is located on a corner. The North and East building facades face to the street
and are the back of the building. As noted above the south and west facades for this building face into the
interior of the lot and the additions will also. The existing building and the new additions main facades do
not face to each street on the corner. As noted above the building was built in 2004 when design standards
were different. Deviation required.

3. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent architectural feature of greater
height or emphasis at the corner where the two (2) public streets meet.

PGAW Response: Due to the explanations above it is not possible to have an entrance on the street side.
We do not have a taller architectural feature at the corner where the public streets meet. Deviation
requested.

4. Buildings should be located as close to the front property line considering site, use, and other
constraints or requirements.

PGAW Response: The existing North and East setbacks are 20’-0” off the property lines. For this building
including the new additions.

5. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking in cases where buildings
can be located adjacent to the public right of way.

PGAW Response: Due to the explanations above it is not possible to have an entrance on the street side.
Parking is located at the interior part of the lot. Deviation requested.

B. Context: New development shall consider the site design and building placement of surrounding


                                                                                                     Page 12 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

development in order to create a site which relates to its surroundings and adds positively to the
overall built environment in the site area. Additionally, all developments shall consider natural
features, such as view corridors, water channels, topography, and vegetation, as integral features
to be preserved, enhanced, and which will contribute to the site.

PGAW Response: This is an existing development which was built in 2004 and was built under a different
Draper City municipal code. It was built taking into consideration the adjacent building to the west where
both properties share a driveway off 13200 South. The area is a mixed-use area which consists of
commercial and residential uses. The project is an office building expansion and the project to the North is
RV Sales, the development to the West is a residential neighborhood, the adjacent property to the South is
am RV park, and the adjacent property to the West is a daycare center. There are not any view corridors,
water channels, major changes in topography (the site is generally flat), and vegetation (site and adjacent
properties are landscaped), that add any special features that preserve, enhance, or otherwise contribute
to the site. Generally speaking, the immediate area has a good feel to it but is not particularly unique.

C. Miscellaneous Site Considerations: The small details that sometimes become afterthoughts of site
planning and design are important factors for making aesthetically attractive sites. The following
shall be implemented during initial site planning:

PGAW Response: See our responses below.

1. Landscaped areas and walls shall be used to decrease noise levels and separate loading and
service bays from customer parking where possible. Service and loading bays (automotive,
service, tire, etc.) should be oriented away from neighboring residential areas and major public
streets. The general public should be restricted from accessing such areas when possible.

PGAW Response: There are no loading and service bays on the site that require screening and all customer
parking is adjacent to the building. The use of this building is office for the Blue Stakes of Utah (811) Utility
Notification center.

2. Approved outdoor storage areas shall be fully screened from view using the same materials as
the building or approved masonry fencing. Enclosures shall also be surrounded by landscaping
to further soften their visual impact. The general public shall be restricted from accessing such
areas.

PGAW Response: There are no outdoor storage areas that require being screened with walls, fences, or
landscaping.

3. Outdoor refuse and garbage collection containers shall be fully screened from view using the
same materials as the building or approved masonry fencing. Enclosures shall also be
surrounded by landscaping to further soften their visual impact. The general public shall be


                                                                                                    Page 13 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

restricted from accessing such areas.

PGAW Response: The existing garbage collection containers are fully screened from view with painted
concrete block and precast concrete wall caps on three sides. The fourth side or access side is screened
with solid metal gates that are painted the same color as the concrete block.

4. Shopping cart corrals are highly visible and needed to keep development sites safe and orderly.
Corrals shall be located in fixed positions and be made of the same material as the building.
Shopping corrals shall also contain some similar architectural or design features as the building.

PGAW Response: This building is not retail and thus there are no shopping cart corrals.

5. Generators and other large auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations where they will be
least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors, particularly for occupants of
neighboring properties. Site plans should also consider public utilities equipment placement and
communicate early in the planning process with the various public utility providers about
potential utility equipment placement on the site.

PGAW Response: Currently we anticipate a diesel generator to be located south of the building and south
of the south entrance driveway off 150 East. The generator is large enough to handle the functional
capacity of the expanded building and will be partially visible from the street. This location is not in the
setback and is in a landscape peninsula adjacent to the parking on the south side of the property. This
location was also chosen because in the original build conduits were buried from the area of the now
existing transformer to this proposed area for the specific purpose of adding a future generator. The
generator will be mostly idle and will exercise once a week during business hours. The adjacent property is
an RV park. During emergencies the generator would potentially run during the night and could create
noise and odor problems. We emphasize that this would be the exception and not the rule. This would only
happen during a power outage in the immediate area. Per this design standards we are screening the
visibility of the generator with new and existing landscaping. Focusing on visibility from 150 East and
buffering the adjacent RV park with new and existing landscaping.

a. Equipment should be kept low to the ground.

PGAW Response: The proposed generator will sit on a diesel storage fuel tank which will sit on a concrete
housekeeping pad. There will be a 3’-0” wide service area completely around the generator and the ground
level will be finished with gravel mulch. The East side of the generator will be screened from the road with
landscaping. The available area for the generator is limited to what was built in 2004 for site improvements.
The generator height is 45.5” and sitting on a fuel tank that is 16.2” in height for a total height of 61.7” (62”
for simplicity). The housekeeping pad is 8” thick and will protrude above the adjacent curb and gutter 4”.
Generator dimensions are 121” length x 34” wide x 61.7” in height.



                                                                                                  Page 14 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

b. Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.

PGAW Response: The designed generator has a low exhaust vent which is shorter than the overall height of
the generator.

c. Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used.

PGAW Response: The unit is to be screened with landscaping from 150 East on its east side.

D. Landscaping: Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance and beautify the site, and the
building's architecture and design.

PGAW Response: A combination of xeriscape and water wise landscaping and lawns are provided on the
site to beautify and enhance the site. This also was built in 2004. The new landscaping for the site follows
the original site design concept.

1. At least twenty percent (20%) of any development site shall be devoted to landscaping,
exclusive of park strips and walkways. Additional landscaping should be provided as needed to
achieve compatibility between differing, adjacent land uses, such as residential and commercial.

PGAW Response: The site including the new additions has a remaining space of 38% that is landscaping or
permeable.

2. Outdoor amenities are required for every development on a site with a combined building floor
area totaling twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater. Outdoor amenities are designed
for pedestrians and create plazas or other focal points that are inviting to site patrons. These
amenities shall be located near entrances or other focal points within the development where
they will be convenient and comfortable for users. Restaurants and other similar uses are
encouraged to provide additional outdoor seating areas for their patrons, but shall not include
these areas as an outdoor amenity if restricted to only paying customers. Outdoor amenities
may include the following:

PGAW Response: This building with its additions is only 5,683 S.F. which is less than 20,000 S.F., this
requirement does not apply.

a.   Seating areas, including patios, decks, porches, benches, tables, and pergolas;

PGAW Response: A Small plaza is provided adjacent to the building. It is surrounded with low landscape
walls suitable for sitting on. Additionally, a covered break area is provided in the Southwest corner of the
property with benches and tables.



                                                                                                 Page 15 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

b.   Water features;

PGAW Response: No water features are provided.

c.   Garden areas designed for active use.

PGAW Response: No garden areas designed for active use are provide. The Owner does not want to
encourage active use. Overall, this is a small site at 0.75 acres.

3. Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and enhancement of pedestrian
plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and signs. This may be accomplished by giving
special attention to any plantings immediately adjacent to pedestrian areas and walkways. This
landscaping shall not overgrow or impede pedestrian areas but rather allow for detail and
aesthetics more amenable to pedestrians.

PGAW Response: The sites landscape design is integrated into the design. An accessible route is provided to
the entrance via a sidewalk, ramps and a small plaza directly adjacent to the buildings southwest side.
Plantings accentuate this with a triangular landscape area centrally located in the plaza. Low freestanding
landscape walls provide seating in this area as well. Existing monument signs are located at each entrance
and are not being modified. There is not a flagpole on the site.

4. Vegetative ground cover should be utilized for at least eighty percent (80%) of a development
site's frontage along any public right of way and in required landscape areas between a building
and the park strip, not including sidewalks, trails, and entry points.

PGAW Response: A landscape buffer is provided on the North and East sides of the building between the
sidewalk and the building that is 20’-0” wide and contains lawns, rock mulch, landscape curbs, plants,
shrubs, trees, and boulders. This area excluding walks and driveways is 84% plants, trees, shrubs, rock
mulch and lawn.

5. Drought resistant shrubs and trees should be used wherever possible in conjunction with
efficient low water use irrigation systems. A list of low water use plants is available from the
community development department.

PGAW Response: A balance of both lawn (Kentucky Blue Grass) and xeriscape areas are provided, new
landscaping mimics this approach. Permeable rock mulch is also provided to add interest. These areas are
divided by concrete landscape curbs. Expanded areas utilize low water plants with a drip irrigation system
utilized. This approach matches original site design concepts.

E. Lighting: Carefully planned lighting schemes shall have the effect of creating safe environments for
pedestrians and motorists. Lighting shall also be considered an integral design element which


                                                                                                   Page 16 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

adds to the overall site plan and building design.

PGAW Response: Exterior lighting has been designed to meet dark sky requirements while providing
minimum exterior lighting requirements for safety and security. Lighting design also provides fixtures with
the proper lighting cut off. Building, plaza, walk, and parking lighting is provided.

1. Lighting schemes should include coordinating parking, wall, and pedestrian scaled fixtures
which complement building architecture and site features.

PGAW Response: The lighting provided is a combination of building, site, and parking lighting that provide
appropriately lights to the plaza, walks, and parking areas. That meets safety and security concerns,
building use does not typically occur at night. The Facility is not open at night for customer use.

2. Sensitively placed low light landscape lighting that highlights a site's desirable features is
encouraged.

PGAW Response: As noted above we believe that we have provided a sufficiently low light environment
that is safe, secure and appropriate for the use which meets dark sky requirements. We have not specified
specific low light landscaped lighting, feeling that we have enough site lighting as indicated above.

F. Parking and Circulation: Lifestyle, separated land uses, and lack of sufficient public transit have
created the need for parking and access for automobiles onto most commercial sites. Measures
shall be taken to ensure that needed parking areas are designed in such a way as to have a
minimal impact on the built environment as possible.

PGAW Response: This is a small site, just 0.75 acres that includes parking, building, plaza, employee break
area, and walks that provide for the owner’s needs, site specific building needs, and serves the employees
needs as well. The impact on the built environment is appropriate to the use of the site.

1. Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should include an analysis of the
proposed development's impact on the current and future transportation system, and methods to
control traffic (such as signage, turn lanes, and traffic signals). The content of such analysis
should follow guidelines established by the city.

PGAW Response: We believe that this site is not of sufficient size to require the items noted above.

2. Major internal circulation roadways that provide access from the public right of way or between
buildings on the same site shall be separated from parking areas using curb and gutter and a
combination of any of the following methods:

PGAW Response: We believe that this site is not of sufficient size to require the items noted above.


                                                                                                    Page 17 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response


a. Landscaping;

PGAW Response: The site has 38% landscaping which is in excess of the 20% requirement.

b. Pedestrian walkways; or

PGAW Response: An accessible route is provided on the site to provide access from the public-way sidewalk
and meet the accessibility requirements.

c. Lighting. (Ord. 799, 12-4-2007)

PGAW Response: Enough lighting is provided on walks, plaza, and parking areas as required by code and to
accentuate site improvements. While meeting dark sky requirements.

3. Pedestrian walkways shall have a minimum five foot (5') wide free travel width. Where deadmen
are not used to keep vehicles off the roadway, two feet (2') shall be added to the walkway for
vehicle overhang in addition to the five foot (5') wide free travel width. Additionally, where other
encroachments into the walkway exist, widths of the walkways shall be increased to ensure the
five foot (5') wide free travel width. (Ord. 867, 11-18-2008)

PGAW Response: The site sidewalks adjacent to parking areas have been designed to meet the 7’-0”
cumulative width indicated above in the design standard.

4. Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing commercial developments
shall be provided during initial site planning and construction, and in perpetuity.

PGAW Response: This is a small site and not of a mercantile nature. There is no reason for cross access nor
is there room for future development related to this site or adjacent sites. The following items appear to be
relative to larger commercial developments of a mercantile nature. We will respond as we feel items apply
to our sites.

G. Pedestrian Considerations: Site layout and design shall consider with equal weight the needs of
pedestrians and automobiles. Measures shall be taken to ensure adequate access and safety for
pedestrians on the site.

PGAW Response: Site access for the pedestrian and for the automobile are separate and provide for safety
of the pedestrians. While providing for required parking needs.

1. Pedestrian access from the public right of way through the site to main entrances shall be
provided. These walkways shall be constructed of different materials than the roadway or


                                                                                                Page 18 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

parking area, and provide for clearly defined crossings where there are points of conflict with
automobiles.

PGAW Response: As noted above there is pedestrian access that keeps the public safe. Walks are to be built
of concrete and parking areas are to be built with asphalt paving’s. There is no crossing provided due to the
small size of the site.

2. Similar pedestrian access from public transit stations and stops into the site and to each building
entrance shall be provided.

PGAW Response: There are no public transit stations or stops relative to this site currently.

3. Differing roadway materials within parking lots shall be used directly in front of entrances to slow
motorists and create a safer environment for pedestrians.

PGAW Response: This item does not seem to apply to this small site

4. Pedestrian drop off locations when incorporated within overall circulation patterns shall be
convenient and safe for pedestrians.

PGAW Response: Site is too small for a complex circulation pattern to be provided. No drop off locations
are to be provided and we have previously addressed safety.

5. Benches, pedestrian scaled lighting, bike racks, and other pedestrian amenities shall be placed
appropriately throughout the site.

PGAW Response: We have spoken to site seating and benches on the site, Lighting is sufficient and safety
appropriate quantity, a bike rack is provided, a plaza area, and an employee break area is provided. No
other pedestrian amenities are to be provided. Amenities generally speak to employee needs.

H. Security: Security of the site and CPTED (crime prevention through environmental design)
principles shall be strongly considered in any site design. Many of the goals of CPTED are
supported by and accomplished through following the standards and guidelines already
enumerated in this chapter. In addition to these standards and guidelines, other measures should
be considered with the following four (4) overlapping CPTED principles in mind:

PGAW Response: Adequate site lighting is provided to maintain a safe secure environment and we have
addressed other items of importance with our responses below.

1. Territoriality is a design concept that plainly demarcates private space from semipublic and
public areas. Clear territoriality in the design of a site also creates a sense of ownership wherein


                                                                                                   Page 19 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

people will be more likely to defend and care for such spaces. Following this principle ultimately
creates an environment where intruders stand out and are more easily identified.

PGAW Response: Site is small, and the concept of territoriality would be difficult to implement. Generally,
the site is public and private that allows for both the access of customers and for employees.

a. Symbolic barriers, such as landscaping or changes in paving materials or patterns can be
effective in creating defined public spaces.

PGAW Response: Public spaces are defined as areas of plazas, pedestrian access, and parking, since the site
is small it is not necessary to incorporate such features beyond what is provided.

b. Spaces which are designed for active use, such as plazas, outdoor seating and eating areas,
benches, fountains, and playgrounds add to the sense of ownership.

PGAW Response: As previously discussed plazas with outdoor seating have been provided, covered break
areas are provided with benches and tables. Site is not large enough for amenities like fountains and
playgrounds neither does building ownership want to encourage children to play on the site.

2. Natural surveillance is a design concept directed primarily at keeping intruders under
observation. Provision of natural surveillance helps create environments where there is sufficient
opportunity for people engaged in their normal behavior to observe the space around them.
Areas can be designed so they are more easily observed through:

PGAW Response: The building is designed with windows on all sides of the building providing natural
surveillance opportunities by employees as they go about their daily activities.

a. Landscape designs and follow up maintenance that allows for clear, unobstructed views of
accessible areas;

PGAW Response: The landscape design allows for clear unobstructed views around the building and into
the accessible areas.

b. Walkways which are visible, well lit, and overlooked by windows from nearby buildings;

PGAW Response: Sidewalks by design are well lit by site and building lighting and as noted above allow for
unobstructed views from the building and into the site.

c. Mixed uses that engage a site at all hours;




                                                                                                 Page 20 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

PGAW Response: The project is a single use site that is generally utilized during regular business hours, but
not exclusively.

d. Use of unglazed or tinted windows and doors; and

PGAW Response: All windows for this facility provide clear glass for unobstructed natural surveillance.

e. Lighting of alcoves, stairwells, and other areas which may otherwise provide concealment.

PGAW Response: There are no alcoves or stairwells on this site. The covered primary entrance is lit with
soffit lights that provide required exiting and security lighting without exceeding dark sky requirements.

3. Access control is a design concept directed primarily at decreasing criminal accessibility.
Provision of natural access control limits access and increases natural surveillance to restrict
criminal intrusion, especially into areas where they will not be easily observed through:

PGAW Response: Access control is provided by the owner and/or owner’s security provider. Building access
is provided at 3 locations with the main entrance being the primary entrance access control point with the
other two being secondary access control points.

a. Clearly marking entrances;

PGAW Response: The primary entrance is a focal point centered on the plaza area and nicely demarked by
its ACM panel finish on the entrance canopy.

b. Restricting access to screened areas such as garbage receptacles, delivery areas, and
outdoor storage areas; and

PGAW Response: The garbage receptacle (dumpster enclosure) is enclosed with walls and gates. The only
access is through the provided gates. There are no specific delivery areas, nor are there any outdoor
storage areas that would need to be screened.

c. Eliminating design elements which allow access to roofs and upper levels.

PGAW Response: There are no design elements that allow access to the roof and there are no upper levels
included in this project.

4. Proper maintenance of landscaping, lighting treatments, and other features can facilitate the
principles of CPTED.




                                                                                                   Page 21 of 22
Blue Stakes of Utah Additions Project
PGA&W Architects Response

PGAW Response: By observation the owner appears to be actively involved in maintaining the building and
site.

I. Signs: The primary purpose of signs is to clearly identify businesses. Signs shall be integrated into
the overall design of a commercial development, including materials, and shall add to the quality of
the built environment without contributing to visual clutter. While the approval of signs requires a
separate review and approval process, their placement should be planned for during initial site
planning and provide for required landscaping, lighting, and other related considerations. (Ord.
799, 12-4-2007)

PGAW Response: The existing site development includes two monument signs that are placed adjacent to
the existing site access driveways. The owner plans to provide additional signage on the building at three
locations. Two signs located on the building at its northeast corner, each of these two signs will face the
right of ways of 150 East and 13200 South. The third sign will be located on the wall inside the new covered
entrance canopy.




                                                                                                   Page 22 of 22
