Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: April 9, 2020
Re: Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan Approval Extension Comments: On February 21, 2019, the Planning Commission granted site plan approval for Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building, located at 11450 South 820 West. The application number is S-277-2018. Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-5-090(J) states:
Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request with the community development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section  9-5-030  and demonstrate substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site plan expires, a new application shall be submitted. If there have been no changes to applicable codes which would necessitate updates to the previously approved plans, the applicant will be charged a new application fee of fifty percent (50%) of the fee outlined in the consolidated fee schedule and the application shall be approved by the Planning Commission as an action item. Changes to applicable codes that require alteration of the previously approved site plan shall be subject to a new application fee at one hundred percent (100%) of the fee established in the consolidated fee schedule and a public hearing before the Planning Commission.
DCMC Section 9-5-030(J) allows for an extension with good cause shown, as follows:
J. Extensions Of Time:  Unless otherwise prohibited, upon written request and for good cause shown, any decision making body or official having authority to grant approval of an application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions of any time limit imposed by this title on such application, its approval, or the applicant, provided a written request for such extension has been received by the community development department prior to the date of expiration, or provided the city staff or planning commission has initiated an extension prior to the date of expiration. The total period of time granted by any such extension or extensions shall not exceed half the length of the original time period.
To date, the applicant has not acquired a land disturbance permit or begun improvements to the property.  As such, he is seeking a six-month extension of his site plan approval.  Attached to this memo is the applicant’s written request for site plan approval extension, the original approval letter, and Planning Commission staff report.  Staff received the request for extension on February 21, 2020, prior to the expiration of the site plan.
If approved, the site plan approval will be valid through August 21, 2020.    The findings are as follows: Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the site plan extension, as requested by Corey Solum, representing Think Architecture, Inc. for the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan, application SP-277-2018, based on the findings listed in the memo dated April 9, 2020.
1.      That the applicant has shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial action has occurred towards acquiring a land disturbance permit.
Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the site plan extension, as requested by Corey Solum, representing Think Architecture, Inc. for the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan, application SP-277-2018, based on the findings listed in the memo dated April 9, 2020.
1.      That the applicant has not shown good cause to obtain an extension and that substantial action has not occurred towards acquiring a land disturbance permit. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Extension Request Letter 4/1/2020 Cover Memo Site Plan Approval Letter 4/1/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 4/1/2020 Cover Memo