Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: July 21, 2020
Re: Fox Landing Phase 3 Addition – Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 0.461 acres located on the west side of 700 West, at approximately 11720 South. The property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agriculture, 40,000 square foot lot minimums). The applicant is requesting that a Land Use Map Amendment be approved to change the designation from Residential Low/Medium Density to the Residential Medium Density designation, and a rezone be approved from the RA1 zone to the R3 (Single Family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) zoning district in order to allow for the property to be included in the Fox Landing development.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their June 25, 2020 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on both applications with a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property;
5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The request complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property;
5. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The request does not comply with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1445: Zoning Map Amendment 7/16/2020 Cover Memo Ord 1446: Land Use Map Amendment 7/16/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 7/15/2020 Cover Memo