Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Pete Kane
CC:  Date: April 7, 2020
Re: EPG Pony Express Development Agreement Request, Land Use Map Amendment, and Zoning Map Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a development agreement (Agreement), land use map amendment (LUM), and zoning map amendment (ZM) for approximately 26.9 acres located south of Golden Harvest Road, west of Pony Express Road, north of 13100 S (does not include any properties on 13100 S), and east of the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal. The project area includes the entirety of the Greenfield Farms subdivision as recorded in 1976. The property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) with a land use designation of Residential Low/Medium Density and Community Commercial. The applicant is seeking a zoning change to M1 (Light Manufacturing) and land use designation of Business/Light Manufacturing. The applicant is also seeking a development agreement to amend the permitted uses within the subject property. The applicant is requesting that an Agreement, LUM, and ZM be approved to allow for the redevelopment of the residential subdivision to two (2) tilt-wall warehouse distribution buildings.
The subject property is a 22-lot single-family residential subdivision (Greenfield Farms) and includes two public rights-of-way (Wheatfield Circle and Wheatfield Way) to be vacated with a future request. The property was developed in the late 1970s. All lots are developed except for 12966 S Wheatfield Way which previously had a single-family dwelling but is currently vacant.
If approved, the applicant would like to redevelop the entire site into a commercial/industrial use. This would include two large warehouse distribution building with associated access, circulation, parking, and stormwater detention – to be sought for approval as a separate site plan application and request to vacate the residential subdivision at a later date.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their April 2, 2020 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on all three applications with a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
The proposed amendments and development plans outlined in the Agreement meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
The pr oposed amendments are harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
The proposed amendments are consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection .
The application complies with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
For denial:
The proposed amendments and development plans outlined in the Agreement do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
The proposed amendments are not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
The proposed amendments are not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection .
The application does not comply with the requirements of DCMC 9-5-200(C).
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1424 3/31/2020 Cover Memo Ordinance 1425 3/31/2020 Cover Memo Staff Report 3/31/2020 Cover Memo