                                 Development Review Committee
                                     1020 East Pioneer Road
                                       Draper, UT 84020
                                            March 16, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 2, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      Highline Signage TA – Text Amendment Request
         Application No.:   TEXTMAP – 953-2020
         Applicant:         Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC
         Project Location:  Bordered by Sivogah Ct, Highland Dr., Bangerter Parkway, with Future
                            way running through the CSD Highline Area.
         Current Zoning:    CSD- Highline (Highline Commercial Special District) Zone
         Acreage:           70.76 Acres (3,082,305 ft²)
         Request:           Request for approval of a Text Amendment in the CSD (Highline
                            Commercial Special District) zone regarding amending Draper City
                            Municipal Code Section 9-18K-070: Signage (B).


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to the sign area requirements in the
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-18K-070 Signage. The applicant is requesting that a Text
Amendment be approved to increase the allowed sign area as the current sign size allowed in the CSD
Highline Zone is smaller than the regular DCMC allows. The applicant states that this would allow for
better sign aesthetics and function in the CSD Highline Zone.

In September 2016, the City Council approved Ordinance No. 1215 creating the Highline Commercial
Special District (CSD). The creation of this CSD was so that a mix of uses could be located on the 70.76
acre site including retail, office and multifamily.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning.
The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Commercial Special District land use designation for
the subject property. Characteristics of the land use designation include the following:




Highline Sign TA                                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-953-2020
Text Amendment Request                              1
DCMC Section 9-8-020(F)(5) it states: “The purpose of each CSD zone is to permit a compatible, master
planned mix of day and evening uses consisting of office, light manufacturing, retail, residential,
recreation and open space components. Although development size and use mix will vary from location to
location, each development is intended to consist of well designed, architecturally integrated structures
which are appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding land uses.”

Text Amendment
The applicant states that the viewing distances from vehicular traffic along I-15 and the surrounding
streets makes the current sign size maximums incompatible and results in a sign that is too small for large
buildings such as Pluralsight, Point of View Apartments and possible future developments in the area.
The applicant states that increasing the sign area in this text amendment will pertain to the rest of the CSD
development area and a proposed standard that is more compatible with the regular DCMC Section 9-26-
070(1) sign code in regard to wall sign area calculations. The text will also provide maximum and




Highline Sign TA                                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-953-2020
Text Amendment Request                               2
minimum sign size for the CSD Highline Zoned area, a change from the regular sign code that will ensure
sign size control making sure that the proper sign size can be created to fit into particular existing and
future developments. The proposed text can be found in Exhibit D of this report.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment request is
found in Sections 9-5-060(e) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

         2. Text Amendments:
              a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 city's general plan;
              b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
              c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
              d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                 title or the general plan;
              e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                 determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                 overall community benefit; and
              f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                 practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1.        The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general
              plan.
    2.        The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
    3.        The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
    4.        The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
              or the general plan.
    5.        The proposed amendment is consistent with the current wall sign allowance in the DCMC.



Highline Sign TA                                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-953-2020
Text Amendment Request                                3
The findings for denial as are follows:

     1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
        general plan.
     2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
        ordinance.
     3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not
        sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
     4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with other sections or part of this title or the
        general plan.
     5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be
        detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
     6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban
        planning, design, and engineering practices.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC for the Highline Sign Text
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-953-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated March 16, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC for the
Highline Sign Text Amendment, application TEXTMAP-953-2020, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated March 16, 2020 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment, as requested by Justin Grubb, representing YESCO LLC for the Highline Sign Text
Amendment, application TEXTMAP-953-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
March 16, 2020.




Highline Sign TA                                                                   App. # TEXTMAP-953-2020
Text Amendment Request                              4
                              EXHIBIT A
                         DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
   EXHIBIT C
CITY WIDE VIEW
                                            EXHIBIT D
                                        LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


9-18K-070: SIGNAGE:

Signage design and location will be an important component of the Highline Commercial Special District.
Allowed signage shall include:

A. Two (2) monument signs will be allowed per building site. Each monument sign shall have a uniform,
    architecturally compatible design consistent with the Highline Commercial Special District design
    theme with faces not larger than one hundred (100) square feet. Locations must be approved by the
    City Engineer to ensure clearance of sight distance requirements at entries and adequate separation
    for readability. Monument signs not to exceed seven feet (7') in height and fourteen feet (14') in width
    (see section 9-18K-090, exhibit G of this article).

B. All buildings will be able to have building signage. Building signage may be installed by individual
    businesses/buildings, hotel, apartment on single-/multi-tenant buildings. Such signs shall have
    individually illuminated letters or decorative sign cabinets. Office building signs shall not exceed two
    hundred (200) six hundred (600) square feet in size maximum per building facade and residential
    signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) two hundred (200) square feet in size maximum per
    building facade. For any one facade of a building, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
    building wall shall be one square foot. When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two
    hundred feet (200') from any public right of way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
    building wall shall be one and one-half (1-1/2) square feet.

C. Wayfinding signs will be allowed in the project. Height not to exceed eight feet (8'). The wayfinding
   sign area will not exceed sixty five (65) square feet.


D. Suspended or blade type projecting signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall
    maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement.


E. If flags or banners are placed on the commercial, residential, or retail areas they will need to be seven
     feet (7') above the pavement. All flagpoles will be part of a site plan submittal.


F. One monument sign shall be allowed for each apartment project.


G. Overall Vista Station Highline CSD monument signs (see detail) shall be installed at specific locations
    (see section 9-18K-090, exhibit G of this article) throughout the project. Two (2) monument signs
    will be allowed per entrance to the Highline CSD. (Ord. 1215, 9-6-2016)
