Draft minutes October 22, 2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:            Vice Chairman Craig Hawker, Commissioner Kent Player, Mary
                           Squire, Gary Ogden, John Van Hoff and Alternate Commissioner
                           DeLaina Tonks

ABSENT:                    Chairperson Andrew Adams, Alternate Commissioners Lisa Fowler
                           and Tab Bingham

STAFF PRESENT:              Jennifer Jastremsky, Travis Van Ekelenburg and Amie Salazar

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:             Christina Oliver, Mike Barker, and Brien Maxfield




6:30 PM Business Meeting
Vice Chair Hawker called the meeting to order and provided roll call. He then read the Zoom
meeting rules into the record.

1.     Written Determination 2020-09

Vice Chair Hawker read the following written determination 2020-09:

This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-
040.
Determination 2020-09, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
.        I, Andrew Adams, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the
Draper City with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of
those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City
Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B.       The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
•        Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19
virus.
•        Under Governor Herbert’s COVID-19 Transmission Index, Salt Lake and Utah
Counties are classified as “high” level meaning both counties meets “high” level criteria in
at least two of the three following criteria: 7-day average positivity rate, 14-day case rate
per 100,000 people, and statewide ICU utilization.
•        It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting
and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with COVID-19
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 22, 2020
Page 2
Transmission Index guidelines and Salt Lake and Utah County Public Health Orders.
•      COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
•      The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
hearings.


2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for May 28, 2020
       (Administrative Action)

       Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff made a motion to approve the Planning
       Commission Meeting minutes for May 28, 2020 and Commissioner Tonks seconded the
       motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.


3. Public Hearing: Kennington Estates Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)
   On the request of Bryan Flamm for approval of a Subdivision Plat Amendment in the RA2
   zone, regarding the Kennington Estates Subdivision to amend lot 8 and create a new lot
   within the subdivision. Application: SUBD-1041-2020. Staff Contact: Travis Van
   Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II presented the application to the commission. He overviewed
an aerial map of the project and indicated the applicant is proposing to adjust the Kennigton
Estates Subdivision boundary and to integrate a new lot into the subdivision. He mentioned the
property is zoned RA-2 and land use designation is Residential Low-medium Density. He
presented the proposed plat and mentioned that the applicant is currently in the Kennington
Estates Subdivision and would like to extend the rear yard of lot 101 half an acre into lot 102 that
is coming into the subdivision. Lot 101 has the address of 13648 South Kennington Court, and
Lot 102 is 13755 South Shadow Mountain Lane which is a private lane. The property owner will
need to obtain an access easement off of the private lane. He overviewed site photos of the
properties.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if this property is one that was under consideration before.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg indicated that the property owner applied for a rezone to make this
boundary line adjustment work. Lot 102 was actually zoned RA-1 which requires one acre in
size. Adjusting the zoning to RA-2 allowed for the boundary adjustment.

Commissioner Squire asked why having a remnant lot is a problem.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 22, 2020
Page 3
Mr. Van Ekelenburg commented this other property was not in a subdivision and it required
moving the full parcel into the subdivision. Commissioner Squire asked why the half portion of
the property not being purchased needs to be in the subdivision.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner replied when you take a piece of a parcel and place it in a
subdivision and leave the other portion outside of a subdivision it creates a remnant parcel. The
lots on Shadow Mountain are not in a subdivision. Remnant parcels are not allowed in the code.

Commissioner Van Hoff mentioned that he voted against the rezone because the HOA did not
provide a recommendation. Now the HOA indicated their support for this plat amendment so he
sees no reason to not vote for it this time.

Vice Chair Hawker opened the public hearing. No one spoke. He closed the public hearing. He
then allowed the applicant to speak.

Bryan Flamm stated he was surprised he had to bring the property into the plat. He indicated that
because Mr. Stevens is being included in the plat and the HOA has nothing to do with Shadow
Mountain Lane, so he will not be included in the HOA. There is no HOA for Shadow Mountain
Lane. He mentioned he has an easement on the lane he has agreed to amend the easement so he
cannot subdivide another lot.

Motion re: Commissioner Player motioned to approve the plat amendment, as requested by
Bryan Flamm for the Kennington Estates Subdivision, Application SUBD-1041-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated October 6, 2020.
Commissioner Squire seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

   4. Public Hearing: Shadow Mountain Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment and Land
      Use Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action)
      On the request of David Johnson and Sean Shah approval of a Zoning Map Amendment
      from the RA1 zone to a split zoning of RA2 and R3, and to amend the Land Use Map on
      a portion of the property from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium
      Density designation. Applications: TEXTMAP-1064-2020 and TEXT MAP-1065-2020.
      Staff Contact: Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522,

Mr. Van Ekelenburg presented the staff report. He indicated the applicant is requesting a land
use and zoning map amendment for 0.92 acres located at 671 E. 13800 S. The zoning is currently
RA-1 and Land Use designation is Residential Low-Medium Density. Residential Medium
Density is across the street and there is a lot of surrounding Low-Medium Density properties on
either side of the subject parcel. He presented a map from the GIS Division and indicated the
back property is requested to be rezoned to RA-2. The RA-1 and RA-2 districts are similar but
do differ in lot area requirements. The RA-1 district requires a minimum lots size of 40,000 sf
and the RA-2 requires 20,000 sf. He mentioned the area shown in blue on the map, the applicant
would like to rezone to R-3 from RA-1. He mentioned that the proposed configuration will
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 22, 2020
Page 4
comply with area requirements which include a minimum lot size of 13,000 sf. If approved, area
one will be reviewed for access off Shadow Mountain Lane. He indicated that he received a
phone call from Mr. Stevens, a resident on Shadow Mountain Lane. Mr. Stevens expressed that
he has lived on the lane longer than other residents and is concerned that if area one develops it
will prohibit the ability of other lots on the lane to develop as well.

Vice Chair Hawker indicated there are many homes that are not RA-2 compliant. He asked what
is the rule regarding the capacity of the lane.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg mentioned that this is only the rezone application and the applicant would
have to subdivide the property.

Vice Chair Hawker stated the Planning Commission could approve this tonight and then review
the subdivision application and deny it if requirements are not met.

Ms. Jastremsky mentioned that they will need to come in for a subdivision application if they are
successful in their rezone application. She indicated they will need to meet the minimum width
standards for a private lane. In the zoning code the width is based on the number of lots on the
lane. They would be required to improve the lane up to their north boundary.

Commissioner Squire stated that in the past they have waived private lane requirements. She
asked if they could ask for a waiver in this situation.

Ms. Jastremsky responded they are looking at the private ROW to see if it complies. The code
does not allow deviations to the width of the asphalt standards. Any waiver would be reviewed
by the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Van Hoff mentioned that during the subdivision plat they will need to show
access onto the private lane. He asked if they would need to get permission from the other
property owners.

Ms. Jastremsky mentioned they would need to show a legal right to access and improve the lane
during the subdivision application.

Commissioner Squire commented that there could be an easement on the property they are not
aware of.

Vice Chair Hawker invited the applicant to speak.

Sean Shah, applicant mentioned that there is a 67% chance that a lot chosen randomly would not
meet the requirements of its zone. He indicated that the road is owned by the Zimmerman’s who
live north of area one on three acres. The Zimmerman’s are supportive of giving him an
easement to access the property. The road needs to be widened to 30 feet to north portion of area
one.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 22, 2020
Page 5
Vice Chair Hawker mentioned that tonight they are only considering the rezone application. He
then opened the public hearing.

Bryan Flamm commented that he does not see a problem with the request from a zoning
perspective and is supportive of the application. He indicated that the neighbor to the west of
property have not been able to join the meeting.

Vice Chair Hawker asked staff if they see anyone trying to get in.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that she does not see anyone but mentioned they can access the live stream
from the website. She offered to send the neighbors a link.

Mike Baker stated that they should try to get them an invite to the meeting.

Ms. Jastremsky indicated that she can forward an invite to Bryan Flamm which he could then
send to them.

Mr. Flamm stated that he would forward the invite.

Vice Chair Hawker asked if Mr. Shah had reached out to the west neighbor.

Mr. Shah mentioned that he visited with the Nichols and they are excited for the rezone and
would like to purchase area one.

David Compton, owner of area two, stated that he is on the phone with the Nichols and they
would like to join to show their support.

Nancy Nichols, neighbor west of project site, stated that her property is surrounded on both sides
of the subject property. She voiced her support and mentioned she is interested in purchasing the
back lot.

Roy Nichols stated that they have no concerns at this point.

Vice Chair Hawker closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Squire stated that she appreciates seeing all of the lots that are out of conformance
with the zoning. She believes the proposal harmonizes with the area.

Motion re: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a positive recommendation of the land
use map amendment, as requested by David Johnson and Sean Shah, for the Shadow Mountain
Subdivision Land Use Map Amendment, Application TEXT MAP 1064-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated October 9, 2020.
Commissioner Van Hoff seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 22, 2020
Page 6

Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council of the zoning map amendment, as requested by David Johnson and Sean Shah, for the
Shadow Mountain Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment, Application TEXT MAP 1065-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated October 9,
2020. Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
      motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

5.     Adjournment
       Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to adjourn at 7:22 p.m. All voted in favor of the
       motion.
