                                      Development Review Committee
                                          1020 East Pioneer Road
                                            Draper, Utah 84020
                                              September 1, 2020

To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: September 10, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By:         Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
                     Planning Division
                     Community Development Department
                     (801) 576-6522; travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Silverlou– Minor Subdivision Deviation Request
          Application No.:   SUBD-546-2019
          Applicant:         Shauna Hatton-Ward
          Project Location:  Approximately 13455 S Fort Street
          Current Zoning:    RA2 (Single Family Residential, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
          Acreage:           1.77 acres (approximately 77,101ft²)
          Request:           The applicant is requesting a deviation for required street improvements on
                             a recently approved Minor Subdivision on a private street.


SUMMARY
This is a request for a deviation from required road improvements for approximately 1.77 acres located on
the east side of Fort Street at 13455 South Fort St (see Exhibit B). The applicant is requesting a deviation
from required street improvements, specifically curb, gutter and sidewalk on a private street.


BACKGROUND
On May 7, 2020 the Zoning Administrator approved the Silverlou Minor Subdivision, creating a three (3)
lot subdivision that has since been recorded with Salt Lake County’s Recorder’s Office. The applicant
purchased a section of the private street (13450 South) on December 18, 2019 in order to provide street
frontage access to the proposed additional lots in the subdivision. It is this street section that is the subject
of the request outlined within this report.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (see Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Silverlou Minor Subdivision Request                                                       Application: SUBD-546-2019
                                                         1
The property is zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum), which requires all
lots to be a minimum 20,000 square feet (see Exhibit D). Per Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) 9-8-
020(B)(1): “The purpose of the RA1 and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact
on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural
areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of
limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached
single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

It abuts RA2 zoning on the north, and RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum)
zoning on the east and south.

Deviation Request. When the Minor Subdivision was approved in May 2020, the private street was
designed as a 30-foot wide right-of-way, with a cross section of 26-feet that included the installation of
curb and gutter at 2-feet per side of roadway with a 22-foot asphalt roadway. This street design complies
with the private right-of-way standards found within DCMC 9-27-150(B)(2) which requires a 26-foot
wide roadway if the street contains 6-10 lots.

Since the plat was approved, the applicant has identified construction challenges in regards to the curb
installation. The applicant is requesting to deviate from the private right-of-way design standards in order
to eliminate the curbing, but still comply with the overall width standard. In this instance, the applicant is




Silverlou Minor Subdivision Request                                                    Application: SUBD-546-2019
                                                      2
proposing to replace the concrete curb with additional asphalt. DCMC allows the Planning Commission
to approve a deviation to such standards, as follows:

     DCMC Section 17-5-030(D): “Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be
     installed on existing and proposed streets by the subdivider in all subdivisions. The Planning
     Commission may, after receiving a recommendation from City staff, modify or waive the street design
     requirements.”

In addition, DCMC Section 17-9-010(C) allows for technical changes without approval of a plat
amendment, if the changes do not impact easements, right-of-way widths, or lot lines. The width of the
right-of-way is not proposed to be modified, just the design components.

     DCMC Section 17-9-010(C). “Technical Changes: An amendment to a recorded plat shall not be
     required for technical changes, such as modifications to grading or utilities, which do not affect
     easements, right-of-way widths, lot lines, notes, or other designations shown on the subdivision plat.
     These changes shall be approved through the corresponding approval process, such as land
     disturbance permit.”

The Draper City Engineering Department has recommended that the Planning Commission waive the
street design requirements for curb, gutter and sidewalk. The applicant will be installing asphalt instead of
concrete, extending the private street width meeting the 26-foot road width requirement. The approved
design will also meet water drainage requirements for the private street. The applicant has submitted a
statement requesting the deviation that is included in this report as Exhibit F.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
deviation from Street Improvements request and has issued a recommendation for approval. Comments,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the deviation from Street Improvements request and has issued a
recommendation for approval. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends that they include the
following conditions of approval:

     1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
        Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
        on the site, including permitting.
     2. That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development of the
        site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
     3. Comply with all conditions of approval from the Minor Subdivision approval dated May 7, 2020.



Silverlou Minor Subdivision Request                                                   Application: SUBD-546-2019
                                                      3
The findings for approval as are follows:
   1. The Draper City Engineering Division agrees with the applicant’s findings on the elimination of
        curb and gutter requirements on 13450 south.

The findings for denial as are follows:
   1. There is not a countervailing reason to deviate from the street design standards and eliminate the
        curb and gutter requirements on 13450 south.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Deviation from Street Design Standards , as
requested by Shauna Hatton-Ward for the Silverlou Minor Subdivision, application SUBD-546-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Deviation from Street Design
Standards , as requested by Shauna Hatton-Ward for the Silverlou Minor Subdivision, application SUBD-
546-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
1, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Deviation from Street Design Standards , as
requested by Shauna Hatton-Ward for the Silverlou Minor Subdivision, application SUBD-546-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 1, 2020.




Silverlou Minor Subdivision Request                                                  Application: SUBD-546-2019
                                                     4
                                    EXHIBIT A
                           DEPARTMENT/DIVISION COMMENTS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review
   1. No comments received.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Once final plat has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division. – Informational comment,
       not action required at this time.

   2. Any work in a public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
      Engineering Division. – Informational comment, not action required at this time.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT E
SUBDIVISION PLAT
                                         EXHIBIT F
                                 STATEMENT FROM APPLICANT

I have paid the invoice to request that I be on the agenda for the Sept 10th planning commission meeting.
The purpose of this request for variance is to pave the existing lane as well as widen the access for
Silverlou subdivision. The cement curb is not possible to construct due to existing driveways and a fence
that has been constructed on the North side of the access lane.
We are proposing to use 26 ft of asphalt, to overlay the existing lane as well as widen it to the said 26ft.
Also, there will be a residential type street light installed between the two lots for Silverlou subdivision as
this is a private lane.

Thank you for your consideration.

Shauna Hattonward
Silverlou subdivision
