                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, Utah 84020

                                            STAFF REPORT
                                             February 18, 2020

To:                     Draper City Planning Commission
Business Date:          February 27, 2020

From:                   Development Review Committee

Prepared By:            Maryann Pickering, AICP, Planner III
                        Planning Division
                        Community Development Department
                        (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us

Re:       Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2 – Text Amendment Request
          Application No.:   TEXTMAP-918-2019
          Applicant:         Price Realty Group, LLC
          Project Location: Current Lone Peak Commercial Special District (CSD-LP)
          Request:           A request to amend various sections of Chapter 9-18G (Lone Peak
                             Commercial Special District) of the Draper City Municipal Code.

SUMMARY
This application is a request to amend various sections of Chapter 9-18G of the Draper City Municipal
Code (DCMC) as it pertains to the boundaries of the Lone Peak Commercial Special District (CSD-LP).

BACKGROUND
The applicant owns several of the properties within the CSD and has done a majority of the development
in the CSD. In 2012, the applicant proposed a commercial special district on the properties which was
subsequently approved in June, 2012. Since the approval, several buildings have been constructed within
the boundaries of the CSD. There are currently some vacant lots and the applicant has requested this text
amendment to modify some of the standards which may be outdated or not compatible with current
development processes. A similar text amendment for the boundaries of the CSD was approved by City
Council July 2019. That text amendment was requested by the applicant to modify some of the standards
which may have been outdated or not compatible with current development processes. Specifically
design standards and required materials were changed along with updating lighting standards and sign
requirements.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Commercial Special
District land use designation for the subject properties. The land use designation for the CSD has the
following characteristics:

         Include a wide range of commercial uses that are destination oriented and draw from a regional
          customer base.



Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                1
        Compatible, master planned mix of day and evening uses consisting of office, light
         manufacturing, retail, residential, recreation and open space components
        Limited traffic access points
        Development is intended to consist of well designed, architecturally integrated structures which
         are appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding land uses
        Uniform design standards and aesthetics
        Access to individual properties should be provided only from frontage roads or major arterials
        Common off-street traffic circulation and parking areas

The properties have been assigned the CSD-LP zoning classification. This zoning designation supports a
variety of uses primarily geared toward manufacturing and office. The CSD-LP zone is “is a master
planned project with multiple architecturally compatible buildings fronting along 12300 South, Draper
City’s major commercial corridor, and Lone Peak Parkway, Draper City’s major commercial/industrial
corridor.”

The property is bounded by R3 (Single Family Residential) the north, CSD-LPA and CBP
(Business/Manufacturing Park) zoning to the east across Lone Peak Parkway and CBP and CR (Regional
Commercial) to the south. To the west (across the rail corridor), there is R3 and RM1 (Multiple Family
Residential). The rail corridor to the west is zoned A5 (Agricultural),

PROPOSED CHANGES
Below is a summary of the proposed changes to the CSD standards. The full text of the changes can be
found in Exhibit C attached to this staff report. Items which are not proposed to be changed will not be
analyzed.

Section 9-18G-050: Clarification of a manufacturing/warehouse building has been added.
Analysis: It is a typical use in this type of development and CSD.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(1)(b): Offices has been added to the types of development there are design
standards for.
Analysis: Offices are a typical use in this type of development and CSD.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(1)(c): This section has been modified to be preferred design elements for retail
uses.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. It is easier for staff to administer the code when the
standards are for a specific use.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(d-f): The subsections have been assigned a different letter based on additions
and subtractions to the text.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(1)(f) – removed section: Required parking for retail has been removed.
Analysis: This is a duplication of the information found in 9-18G-060: Parking.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(1)(i): This section allows decorative concrete in addition to decorative masonry
for dumpsters.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. This will allow dumpsters to match the design of the
building they serve.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(a): This change removes the requirement that designs must match the exhibits
and removes the requirement for neutral earth tone color schemes.


Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                2
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. The change was previously made for the retail portions
of the CSD and this will make the industrial phase more consistent and easier for staff to administer.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(e): Required parking industrial has been removed.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees. This is a duplication of the information found in 9-18G-060: Parking.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(e-h): The subsections have been assigned a different letter based on additions
and subtractions to the text.

Section 9-18G-050(A)(2)(i): Clarifies that outside storage is permitted for one building provided it is
screened. Also adds metal or concrete as a screening material.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. Screening of outdoor storage is acceptable.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(6): The specific plant list has been removed.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. The plant list provided is limited and difficult for some
projects to meet. Most recent projects have initially proposed different plant materials.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(7): The overall amount of landscaping has been reduced from 13% to 10%.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. The sites will continue to have adequate landscaping.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(11): The specific buffer requirement for the CSD is modified to remove the
limitation on the buffer and remove the specific number of plantings.
Analysis: Planning staff agrees with this change. While there is residential zoning to the north, the site
has been developed as commercial with a charter school. Properties to the west are also zoned residential,
but do have the rail corridor in between which provides a natural buffer. There is no need for this section
based on development around the site.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(11-13): The subsections have been assigned a different letter based on additions
and subtractions to the text.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(12): The proposed changes allow for artificial turf and an option for landscaping
along streets interior to the CSD.
Analysis: Artificial turf would create green areas along a street that give the appearance of grass but with
the water saving benefit that comes along with it.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(13): The change removes a confusing statement within the CSD about
landscaping and allows for artificial turf around buildings.
Analysis: Artificial turf would create green areas along a street that give the appearance of grass but with
the water saving benefit that comes along with it.

Section 9-18G-050(B)(14): This is a new section that allows for outdoor art around the CSD. The art
must be located where it does not impede traffic views of those accessing a public right-of-way.
Analysis: The art will be located on private property and will not be in a right-of-way or impede a right-
of-way.

Section 9-18G-060(A): Required parking has been reduced from five parking spaces per 1,000 square
feet of retail floor area to four parking spaces per 1,000 square feet required for retail uses.
Analysis: The reduction in parking will be minor and is similar to other recently approved CSD
standards. Those typically have a range of 3.5 to eight parking stalls per 1,000 square feet required for
retail.


Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                      App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                3
Section 9-18G-060(C): Required parking has been reduced from one and one half parking stalls per
1,000 square feet of industrial floor area to one parking stall per 1,000 square feet of industrial floor area.
Analysis: The reduction in parking will be minor and is similar to other recently approved CSD
standards. There is one other CSD that allows industrial uses and it requires four parking stalls per 1,000
square feet.

Section 9-18G-070(D): The change in this section removes the discretion of the planning staff to
determine light poles colors and instead provides choices for the developer.
Analysis: It is more appropriate for the developer or owner to make the choice of light pole colors rather
than staff.

Section 9-18G-075: This is a new section for the CSD. The developer has desired to have the wider
drive approaches for some time. The proposed approaches are larger than the standard approach reviewed
and approved by Engineering. The applicant would like to have 50 foot wide approaches where 36 feet is
the standard width approved.
Analysis: This change would allow for much larger drive approaches within the boundaries of the CSD.
There are some concerns that this could be an impact to pedestrians and having more than one per lot (the
applicant is request 1.5 per lot) would create large approaches. Engineering has worked with the
applicant and is okay with the wider approaches if they are not placed next to each other (to create an
extra wide approach) and they are limited one per lot and two adjacent lots share an approach when
necessary.

Section 9-18G-080(B): The proposed changes would increase the number of pylon signs permitted from
five to seven and clarify that the height does not include the base. The proposed changes also increase the
number of tenants identified on the sign from four to 10.
Analysis: The proposed changes are more in line with other recently approved CSD’s.

Section 9-18G-80(C)): This change clarifies that monument signs can be for single or multi tenants. It
also outlines the locations of various monument signs and allows each subdivision lot to have one sign
per street frontage.
Analysis: The proposed changes are more in line with other recently approved CSD’s and most of the
lots where two signs would be permitted are internal to the business park.

Section 9-18G-080(D): The section allows all existing signs within the CSD to be modified if desired by
the tenant. Previously only certain areas could amend or update their signs.
Analysis: This will help make all signs consistent.

Section 9-18G-080(E): The proposed changes allows monument signs to be up to 32 square feet instead
of the 24 square feet currently allowed. It should be noted that this section already clarifies that this is
advertising area only and not the overall sign size.
Analysis: The increase of advertising area would make for larger signs. 12300 South is a busy street
with a lot of traffic during most business hours and the larger signs could make it easier for customers to
find the businesses they need.

Section 9-18G-080(F): This proposed change allows for two extra directional signs. These are smaller
signs that typically direct customers to a business within the development or direct customers to parking
or drive thru areas.
Analysis: Two extra of these types of sign are a minor increase in signage.

Section 9-18G-080(G-M): The subsections have been assigned a different letter based on additions and
subtractions to the text.

Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                         App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                  4
Section 9-18G-080(M): This is a new section added with this text amendment. The archway types of
signs being proposed would span the entire width of the public right-of-way. The specific location is at
265 W. 12300 South next to the coffee business under construction. The maximum clearance is 24 feet.
Analysis: This would be a large sign over an accessway similar to the sign that exists at the entrance to
Draper Peaks. Staff has concerns with not only the appearance of these signs but Engineering has noted
that the Draper Peaks signs sometimes cause confusion for vehicles who have a hard time seeing the
traffic lights. A better solution might be to require the signs setback from the streetlights and
intersections to reduce confusion. The Fire Marshal has indicated that the clearance is acceptable for
emergency vehicles.

Section 9-18G-085: The change clarifies a previous addition and adds industrial as a type of
development that can be administratively approved by the Zoning Administrator.
Analysis: The prior text amendment allowed for Zoning Administrator approvals for commercial and
retail uses. This change would allow for administrative approval of industrial projects also.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and approval of a text amendment request to the zoning
code are found in Subsection 9-5-060(E)(2) of the Draper City Municipal Code. They are as follows:

2.       Text Amendments:
         a.     Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                city’s general plan;
         b.     Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                ordinance;
         c.     Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         d.     The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                title or the general plan;
         e.     Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                overall community benefit; and
         f.     The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
proposed text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Public Works Division Review. The Draper City Public Works Division has completed their review of the
proposed text amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Review. The Draper City Legal Division has completed their review of the proposed text
amendment. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.


Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                5
The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1.        That Section 9-5-060(E) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text of
                   the DCMC.
         2.        That this text amendment does not compromise any of the 6 factors listed in Section 9-5-
                   060(E)(2).
         3.        That the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
                   City’s General Plan.

The findings for negative recommendation are as follows:

         1.        That this text amendment compromises one or more of the 6 factors listed in Section 9-5-
                   060(E)(2).
         2.        That the proposed text change is not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
                   the City’s General Plan.

MODEL MOTION
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Lone Peak Business Park CSD zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-918-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated February 18, 2020.”

Sample Motion for a Modified Recommendation – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the Lone Peak Business Park CSD zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-918-2019, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
February 18, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1.        List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation. “I move that we forward a negative recommendation
to the City Council for the Lone Peak Business Park CSD zoning text amendment request, application
TEXTMAP-918-2019, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 18, 2020.”




Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA#2                                                        App. # TEXTMAP-918-2019
Zoning Text Amendment                                  6
                                     EXHIBIT A
                            DEPARTMENT/DIVISION COMMENTS

Draper City Planning Division Review
No additional comments.

Draper City Public Works Review
No additional comments. Comments have been incorporated into the updated text.

Draper City Legal Division Review
No additional comments.
           EXHIBIT B
AERIAL PHOTO OF CSD BOUNDARIES
      EXHIBIT C
PROPOSED TEXT CHANGES
9-18G-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The LPCSD provides design guidelines for the buildings, landscaping, parking, lighting and signage
located within the district boundaries. The LPCSD is a master planned mixed use development
containing approximately one hundred (100) acres of developed and undeveloped land along the 12300
South arterial and Lone Peak Parkway arterial corridors. The schematic site plan of the LPCSD is
depicted in section 9-18G-090, exhibit A of this article. The master plan provides for various potential
retail, office and industrial development uses in designated areas of the LPCSD in accordance with the
development standards set forth in this section. The conceptual locations of these potential uses are
depicted in section 9-18G-090 exhibit A-1 of this article. The retail phase is located on the north side of
12300 South. This phase has two (2) pad sites, plus an existing retail building of approximately sixteen
thousand three hundred (16,300) square feet. The master planned park may also include office uses
incorporated into the retail or industrial phases of the LPCSD so long as they adhere to the use and
design guidelines established herein. North of the retail phase there are currently five (5) office and
warehouse buildings totaling approximately one hundred ninety two thousand (192,000) square feet.
At approximately 12050 South Lone Peak Parkway there exists one 285,000-square foot manufacturing
building which building, together with the related parcel, shall be referred to herein as the
"manufacturing building" and one 102,000-square foot warehouse building which building, together
with the related parcel, shall be referred to herein as the "warehouse building". At approximately 331
West 11950 there exists one (1) one hundred twenty two thought (122,000) square foot manufacturing
building which building, together with the related parcel, shall be referred to herein as the
“Manufacturing Building-Wasatch”, and one (1) seventy thousand (70,000) square foot
manufacturing/warehouse building referred to herein as “Manufacturing/Warehouse Building.”

The balance of the land is currently undeveloped. All buildings within the LPCSD, other than the
manufacturing building and the warehouse building, the Manufacturing Building-Wasatch and the
Manufacturing/Warehouse Building shall comply with the following development standards:

9-18G-050(A):
       1.     Retail/Office Phase:
              b.      Where an elevation of a building faces 12300 South, a minimum of ten percent
                      (10%) of the wall facing 12300 South shall be made up of or covered with an
                      element of interest. Examples of elements of interest include, but are not
                      limited to: concrete masonry units, ledge stone, rock, brick, brick veneer,
                      architectural grade concrete, or other unique elements needed to conform to a
                      user's specifically established architectural design standards in other markets.
              c.      Preferred design elements for retail include:
                      (10)     Architectural grade exposed exterior concrete.
                      (11)     Over 50% glass wall facing at least one street, measured horizontally.
                      (12)     Brick veneer.
                      (13)     Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixtures at main entries.
                      (14)     Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.
              d.      Preferred design elements for office include:
                      (1)      Architectural metal paneling.
                      (2)      Architectural cement paneling.
                      (3)      Ceramic tile cladding or architectural concrete finish.
                      (4)      Decorative canopy at lobby entry.
                      (5)      Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixture.
                      (6)      Architectural concrete.
                        (7)     Multi-story glass.
                        (8)     Masonry or brick veneer.
                        (9)     Decorative metal trim.
                        (10)    EIFS field.
                        (11)    Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.

                d.e.    No building shall be larger than one hundred sixty thousand (160,000) square
                        feet.
                e.f.    The minimum front setback from the property line shall be thirty feet (30').
                f.      For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of retail space, there shall be a
                        minimum of five (5) parking stalls.
                i.g.    Dumpsters shall be kept within a decorative masonry or concrete enclosure
                        designed to be compatible with the overall project architecture.

        2.      Industrial Phase:
                a.      All buildings shall share a similar architectural theme as depicted in the
                        drawings incorporated as section 9-18G-090, exhibits C2, C3 and C4 of this
                        article. Design elements shall be used to add interest on the front and side of
                        buildings with particular sensitivity to maintaining efficient business operations.
                        Color schemes shall be neutral earth tones. The design themes may also
                        accommodate other unique elements needed to conform to a user's specifically
                        established architectural design standards in other markets.
                f.e.    No building shall be taller than sixty feet (60'), measured from the finished
                        grade. Finished grade calculations and elevations shall not be calculated from
                        any applicable truck dock well elevations that penetrate deeper than the typical
                        finished grades. Instead, elevations shall be calculated from the remaining
                        finished grade of the site, e.g., a car parking stall elevation.
                g.f.    All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by enclosure or
                        parapet wall.
                h.g.    Dumpsters shall be screened from view by concrete screen walls incorporated
                        within the truck courts or enclosed within a concrete or masonry enclosure
                        designed to be compatible with the overall project architecture.
                i.h.    Outside storage, where allowed, shall be located no closer than one hundred
                        fifty feet (150') from any street (with the exception of the Shasta building
                        located at 264 West which shall be no closer than eighteen feet from curb back
                        of street) and shall be contained within a secured minimum eight foot (8') vinyl
                        coated chainlink fence with vinyl slats or masonry, metal, or concrete wall,
                        designed to visually occlude the stored items from the street.

9-18G-050(B):
       6.     Plants Lists: Plants shall be selected from the following lists, with consideration given to
              specific microclimatic conditions, including sun, shade, solar aspect, the size and growth
              habit of selected species at maturity and the overall landscape design concept.:

                                   Trees:
                                      Acer platanoides “crimson sentry”                Crimson sentry maple
                                      Acer tuncatum x A platanoides                    Norwegian sunset maple
                                              “keithsform”


                                                    2
                             Populus tremula “erecta”                         Swedish columnar aspen
                             Pyrus calleryana “capitol”                       Capitol pear
                             Robinia pseudoacacia “purple robe”               Purple robe locust
                             Tilia cordata “Chancellor”                       Chancellor linden
                             Zelkova serrata “Mushashino”                     Mushashino columnar
                                                                                      Zelkova
                          Shrubs:
                             Berberis thunbergii atro. “Ruby                  Ruby carousel red leaf
                                     carousel”                                        barberry
                             Cornus alba “cream cracker”                      Cream cracker dogwood
                             Juniperus horizontalis “icee blue”               Icee blue horizontal
                                                                                      juniper
                             Prunus besseyi “Pawnee Buttes”                   Pawnee Buttes sand
                                                                                      cherry
                            Rhus aromatic “grow-low”                          Grow-low sumac
                            Rosa meidiland sp.                                Meidiland rose
                            Symphoricarpos x chenualtii                       Hancock coralberry
                                    “Hancock”
                          Ornamental grasses:
                            Calamagrostis acutifolia “Karl                    Karl Foerster feather reed
                                    Foerster”                                         grass
                            Helictrotrichon sempervirens                      Blue oat grass
                            Miscanthus sinensis sp.                           Maidenhair grass
                            Pennisetum alopecuroides                          Fountain grass

7.     New Phases: Each new LPCSD phase shall meet a minimum tenthirteen percent
       (1013%) overall landscape percentage exclusive of the previously constructed Lone Peak
       Business Park Phases 1 and 2 and the previously constructed two hundred eighty five
       thousand (285,000) square foot manufacturing building and the adjacent one hundred
       thousand (100,000) square foot warehouse building. This tenthirteen percent (1013%)
       overall minimum landscape percentage is calculated as total landscaped area over
       developed site area. To mitigate the reduced overall landscaping, more intensive
       plantings in certain areas shall be required., with particular emphasis on the highly
       visible ingress/egress corridors directly adjacent to 12300 South and Lone Peak
       Parkway.
11.    Buffer Requirements: In the specific instance that a proposed development request
       within the LPCSD abuts another property outside the LPCSD that is not zoned
       commercial, the landscape buffering requirements for the development request within
       the LPCSD shall be limited to a forty foot (40') setback from the property line, three (3)
       shade trees, eight (8) evergreen trees and twenty two (22) shrubs for every one
       hundred (100) linear feet of the buffer.
12.11. Lone Peak Parkway:
13.12. Interior Streets: Interior streets shall include a five foot (5') minimum landscape buffer
       on both sides of the street measured from curb back to curb back or building, between
       street and parking or buildings. All outside areas shall be landscaped with a
       combination of lawn or artificial turf, columnar trees, shrubs, decorative grasses and
       rock ground cover incorporated in this LPCSD text.


                                           3
        14.13. Buildings: Buildings shall include a five foot (5') minimum landscape strip located
               between building front and adjacent sidewalk or parking area and a ten foot (10')
               minimum landscape area located between parking areas where two (2) buildings with
               lot lines and adjacent parking occur. All outside areas shall be landscaped with a
               combination of lawn or artificial turf, columnar trees, shrubs, decorative grasses and
               rock ground cover incorporated in this LPCSD text.
        14.    Outdoor Art: Landscaping may include outdoor art or sculptures that are culturally
               enriching and socially acceptable. It is the intent that the artwork add to the theme and
               esthetic experience of the Lone Peak Business Park and not as propaganda or for
               marketing. All outdoor art shall be of a type and in a location that will not be a
               distraction or impede the view of those accessing the rights-of way.

9-18G-060: PARKING:
       A.     Parking For Retail Buildings: For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of retail space,
              there shall be fivefour (45) parking spaces. ADA accessible stalls will be provided in
              accordance with established standards.
       C.     Parking For Industrial Buildings: For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of industrial
              space, there shall be a minimum of one and one-half (1½) parking spaces. ADA
              accessible stalls will be provided in accordance with established standards.

9-18G-070: LIGHTING DESIGN:
       D.     Design: Both pole mounted and building mounted light fixtures shall be of a design to
              not allow direct light to escape above the ninety degree (90°) plane of the fixture lens.
              The approval of light pole colors shall be at the discretion of the planning review staff in
              accordance with the site plan review process. Preferred parking lot light pole colors
              shall be stainless steel and/or silver, grey or white as approved by the planning review
              staff. Light poles adjacent to 12300 South or Lone Peak Parkway shall be black.

9-18G-075: TRUCK CIRCULATION
Truck circulation is an important aspect due to the turning radius of trucks pulling fifty three foot (53’)
trailers and double trailers. With the turning radius being so wide and as not to block traffic or cross
medians in order to navigate into and out of truck courts from the access roads, the following will be
allowed:

        A.      The maximum width of an approach from any street will be fifty feet (50’) measured
                from curb face to curb face where the approach enters a truck court. The minimum
                curb radius at the approaches will be fifteen feet (15’) measured from the curb back
                with a maximum curb radius of twenty four feet (24’) measured from curb back. Two
                (2) truck approaches shall not be placed adjacent to each other regardless of lot
                boundaries and shall be have a maximum truck approach of one and one-half (1.5) per
                lot. Where possible two (2) separate lots will share a single truck approach.

        B.      The maximum width of an approach from any street will be thirty-six feet (36’) at any
                approach entering an automobile only parking lot with a minimum approach width of
                twenty-six feet (26’). The minimum curb radius at the approaches will be a minimum of
                twenty-four feet (24’) measured at curb back.

9·18G·080: SIGNAGE:


                                                      4
B.     Pylon Signs: A maximum of sevenfive (75) pylon signs may be erected. One pylon sign
       will be located at the intersection of 12300 South 265 West, one at the future
       intersection of 12200 South Lone Peak Parkway, and one at the intersection of
       approximately 12000 South Lone Peak Parkway as conceptually outlined in section 9-
       18G-090, exhibit D of this article. The remaining two (2) pylon signs shall also adhere to
       the master signage guidelines of the LPCSD and must be approved by the zoning
       administrator for all appropriate safety issues. These pylon signs shall be a maximum of
       thirty feet (30') tall (in addition to the three feet (3’) base) and no wider than ten feet
       (10') and shall identify the business park as well as up to tenfour (104) major tenants
       located within the park. Each pylon sign may be multi-tenant signs designed to be
       architecturally compatible with the LPCSD design themes as depicted in section 9-18G-
       090, exhibit D1 of this article.

C.     Multi-TenantMonument Signs: Single or Multi-tenant monument signage shall be
       allowed in the following locations:
       2.      Lone Peak Business Park phase 1 at approximately 12250 South Lone Peak
               Parkway; and
       3.      Lone Peak Business Park east at approximately 12217 South Lone Peak
               Parkway.;
       4.      Lone Peak Biotech Business Park at approximately 12200 South Lone Peak
               Parkway;
       5.      Approximately 11950 South Lone Peak Parkway;
       D.      Single Use Tenant Monument Signs: Single use tenant monument signage shall
               be allowed as follows:
       1.6.    Each subdivided lot Properties along Lone Peak Parkway and within the LPCSD
               with fifteen (15) or more acres and eight hundred feet (800') or more of direct
               street frontage shall be allowed a up to three (3) monument sign on each street
               frontages. The height of each monument sign shall not exceed twelve feet (12')
               and the overall sign area shall not exceed sixty four (64) square feet, as
               described in section 9-18G-090, exhibit E of this article.

E.D.   Previously Constructed Or Existing Signage: All previously constructed or existing multi-
       tenant monument signage within these three (3) distinct areas of the LPCSD shall be
       allowed a maximum of thirty (30) square feet of tenant advertising area and excludes
       the sign's architectural supports and design elements as described in section 9-18G-090,
       exhibit D1 of this article.

F.E.   Additional Monument Signs: Pad sites along 12300 South may install additional
       monument signs along 12300 South, designed to be architecturally compatible with the
       LPCSD's design theme as outlined in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D1 of this article and be
       no larger than thirty-twotwenty four (3224) square feet of tenant advertising area. This
       maximum square footage allocation excludes the sign's architectural supports and areas
       not designed for tenant's advertising area.
G.F.   Additional Directional/Informational Signage:
       1.      Additional tenant directional signage may be installed to direct traffic,
               customers and truck drivers to individual tenant locations within the LPCSD.
               The maximum area of business name or logo on directional signage shall be one



                                           5
                         square foot. The maximum area of the directional signs shall be teneight (108)
                         square feet. Cabinet signs shall be permitted.
        H.G.    Wall Mounted Sign Design Guidelines For Multi-Tenant, Single Owner Or Single
                Occupant Buildings: Wall mounted signage shall be allowed usually above the main
                entry of each tenant space and shall incorporate the following design criteria:
        I.H.    Undeveloped Lot Signage: Future development lots shall also be allowed one lot
                identification sign. The lot identification sign shall be no taller than three feet (3') and
                no wider than two feet (2'). The lot identification sign shall include the Lone Peak
                business park logo and the individual lot number as portrayed in section 9-18G-090,
                Exhibit D1 of this article.
        J.I.    Temporary Signage: Draper City's normal temporary signage ordinances and procedures
                outlined in section 9-26-080 of this title shall also apply to this district.
        K.J.    Pole Signage: One pole sign will be located in the vicinity of 12300 South and 222 West,
                as conceptually outlined in Exhibit D2 of this article. This pole sign will be a maximum of
                forty feet (40’) tall and no wider than ten feet (10’) and shall identify up to two tenants
                located within the park.
        L.K.    Menu Boards: Menu boards, including digital menu boards, shall be allowed for drive-
                thru restaurants and fast food facilities.
        M.L.    Clearance Signs: Drive-through facilities shall be allowed one clearance sign per drive
                through lane which will not exceed four (4) square feet.
        M.      Archway Sign: Archway signs not to exceed twenty-four feet (24’) clearance will be
                allowed at 265 West 12300 South provided it is not installed in a public right of way.

9-18G-085: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes conceptual site
plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in accordance with City
ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be approved by the Draper City zoning
administrator. Except as otherwise provided herein, permits shall be processed in accordance with the
Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures.




                                                    6
