                                          Development Review Committee
                                              1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                Draper, UT 84020
                                                 September 10, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: September 24, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Shaggy Chic – Home Occupation Conditional Use Request
          Application No.:  USE-1043-2020
          Applicant:        Vern & Christie Latham
          Project Location: 12868 S Fayview Lane
          Current Zoning:   RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) zone
          Acreage:          0.47 Acres (Approximately 20,473 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
                            RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) zone regarding a
                            single chair beauty salon in a single-family home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (HOCUP)for
approximately 0.47 acres located at 12868 S Fayview Lane (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned
RA2. The applicant is requesting that a HOCUP be approved to allow for the operation of a Personal
Care Service business in the single-family residential home.

According to the Salt Lake County Assessor’s office, the home was built in 2019, is approximately 2,705
ft² and sits on a 0.47 acre lot within the Rivermark Subdivision. The Rivermark Subdivision was recorded
on July 23, 2018 and encompasses 17 lots.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low/Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Shaggy Chic                                                                            App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request           1
The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
units per acre (Exhibit D). The purpose of the RA2 zone, per Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020, is to “foster low density development with little impact on its surroundings and
municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas; and to promote and
preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited numbers of animals
and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings,
protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.” The subject property is abutted by
RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² lot minimum) zoning on the west, and RA2 zoning on the south,
east and north.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant built a specific room for the salon adjacent to the garage, and this room
was intended to be used for a home occupation business. All of the business activity will be done within
the room in the home and there will not be outside activities associated with the use. Appointments
would be available two days a week from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Exhibit G). There will never be more
than two clients on the property at a given time, with one receiving treatment and one waiting. There
would be at most six clients a day. The driveway will be used for customer parking utilizing two spaces
max on the side of the driveway that will not create an impact on the residential parking. The driveway
may hold 6 to 8 vehicles depending on size (Exhibit F).


Shaggy Chic                                                                              App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request      2
The salon space is 145 ft² in size and will have a separate entrance (Exhibit E). The house has 2,705 ft² of
area so the proposed use will be well under the 25% area usage maximum for the home occupation
(Exhibit H).

Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). DCMC Chapter 9-34 governs home occupations and states that
home occupations are subject to certain standards found in DCMC Section 9-34-040. DCMC Section 9-
34-060 of the DCMC states that “a home occupation listed in section 9-34-030 or 9-34-050 of this
chapter that does not conform to any of the development standards in section 9-34-040 of this chapter
may nonetheless be established through the issuance of a conditional use permit specifically for the
desired alteration to those development standards.” DCMC Section 9-34-060 states that a home
occupation that does not conform to the development standards may be established with the issuance of a
conditional use permit. The applicant would like to have a customers come to the residence for salon
visits.

Home Occupation. DCMC 9-34-040 outlines development standards applicable to all home occupations.
Those criteria, along with information specific to the subject request, are as follows:

          A. Ownership: The home occupation shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in the
              dwelling where the home occupation is located. Such person shall be the primary provider of
              the labor, work, or service provided in the home occupation.

               The applicant owns and resides within the home.

          B. Business License: A business license for the home occupation shall be obtained from and
              continually maintained with the city pursuant to title 6, chapter 11 of this code.

               After approval of this HOCUP the applicant will apply for their business license.

          C. Employees: Members of the family of the owner who reside in the dwelling may be employed
              in the home occupation. Nonfamily or nonresident employees shall be limited to one person.

               The applicant will have no employees in the home with this business.

          D. Inspection: All facilities shall comply with fire, building, plumbing, electrical and all other
              city, county, state and federal codes. Inspections during reasonable hours by city officials
              may occur as necessary to assure compliance with regulations.

               The applicant will comply with any inspections that are required for city, state, or county
               officials.

          E. Inventory: No stock in trade, inventory, or other merchandise to exceed two hundred fifty (250)
              square feet shall be kept on the premises. No outside storage is allowed.

               The applicant will utilize only 145 ft² for the entire home business area to include any
               inventory being under the 250 ft² maximum.

          F. Modification Of Structures Or Yards: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
              dwelling that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling. No activities shall
              be carried on outside the dwelling in the yard for the benefit of or incidental to the home



Shaggy Chic                                                                                   App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          3
               occupation. No front yard area shall be altered to provide parking required for a home
               occupation.

               The house will remain visually as a home with no evidence of a business from the outside.
               The applicant will have up to two customer vehicles at one time in their driveway.

          G. Nuisance: Tools, items, equipment, or activities conducted within the dwelling which is
              offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration, magnetic
              interference, or noise shall be prohibited.

               The applicant will have no nuisance activity at the home.

          H. Secondary Use: The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the primary
              use of the dwelling for residential purposes. The home occupation shall not disrupt the
              normal residential character of the neighborhood in which the residence is located. Not more
              than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling unit shall be used for the home occupation.

               The subject home is approximately 2705 ft². Twenty five percent of the home’s square
               footage is 676 ft², and the salon will use 145 ft² utilizing only 5.3% of the home. The Home
               Occupation use will always be a secondary use at the property.

          I.   Signs: All signage in a residential area must comply with chapter 26, "Signs", of this title.

               The applicant will comply with Title 9 Chapter 26 of the DCMC. The applicant has not
               requested signage with this application but a sign permit and review will be required for
               future signs.

          J. Traffic, Parking, And Access: No home occupation use shall generate pedestrian, parking, or
              vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
              located. All parking shall be provided and maintained on site with adequate provision for
              drop off traffic.

               The applicant will have up to two vehicles in their driveway during business hours. This will
               not affect parking for the residence which will take place inside the enclosed garage.

          K. Vehicles: Other than the business owner's personal transportation, there shall be no vehicles
              or equipment on the property associated with the home occupation which would not normally
              be found at a residence. No signage for the home occupation shall be allowed on vehicles.

               The applicant does not have vehicles that are associated with the home business. The
               applicant will not have any signage on their vehicles at the residence.

          L. Yards: Yards surrounding the dwelling and accessory buildings shall not be used for any
              activities or storage of any materials associated with the home occupation.

               The applicant will not use their yard for any business activities.

          M. Customers: No customers allowed. Children accessing a limited daycare or limited preschool
             facility shall not be considered customers.




Shaggy Chic                                                                                   App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request           4
               The applicant is applying for permission through the Conditional Use process to have
               customers on site that will total no more than six daily, two days a week.

          N. Utility Demand: The home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess
              of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

               The utility use for this business will be minimal and will not be significantly different
               fromnormal residential usage.

          O. Main Structure: The home occupations shall be conducted, located, and contained within the
             primary structure on the property.

               The business will meet this requirement as all business activities will take place within the
               home.

          P. Single-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Home occupations listed as permitted or
              conditional within this title may be permitted in a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling,
              subject to the standards found within this section and section 9-34-060 of this chapter.
              Businesses within multiple-family dwellings shall provide an approval letter from the
              respective homeowners' association, or management company in the case of apartments, if
              the business proposes any employees, customers or business vehicles.

               The applicant has a single family home. The applicant will not have any employees other
               than themselves.

          Q. Licensure: Any home occupation involving childcare shall comply with all applicable state
              and local laws and regulations regarding residential childcare, including, but not limited to,
              provisions of the Utah child care licensing act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
              26-39-101 et seq., as amended, and the residential certificate childcare standards as set forth
              in the Utah administrative code section R430-50-1 et seq., as amended. In addition, cottage
              food production operations are regulated and inspected by the Utah department of
              agriculture. Any food related home occupation under their jurisdiction must comply with
              these regulations.

               This section does not apply to the applicant as they are not a child care business.


Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Conditional Use request is
found in Sections 9-5-080(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.



Shaggy Chic                                                                                   App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          5
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                   the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                   drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                   protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                   noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                   the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed to
              determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
HOCUP. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the HOCUP. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the HOCUP.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the HOCUP. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:



Shaggy Chic                                                                                App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request        6
          1.        All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department, Building Division, and Business
                    License Division shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation on
                    the property.
          2.        The business shall meet all requirements of DCMC Section 9-34-040, except as provided
                    by this permit.
          3.        The applicant shall obtain all necessary inspections prior to starting business operations,
                    including, but not limited to a building inspection, fire inspection, and Health Department
                    inspection.
          4.        The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate licensure from any
                    and all necessary State and County agencies prior to receiving a business license.
          5.        Customer parking shall be located on-site. On-street parking shall not be utilized for the
                    business.

The findings for approval are as follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects, including traffic and parking.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Vern
& Christie Latham, for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, application USE-1043-2020, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 10, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Vern & Christie Latham, for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, application USE-1043-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 10,
2020, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Vern &
Christie Latham, for a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit, application USE-1043-2020, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 10, 2020.




Shaggy Chic                                                                                  App. # USE-1043-2020
Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request          7
                                           EXHIBIT A
                                      DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

   1. The proposed use on the property will have a low intensity of customers and hours of operation
      that will have a low impact on neighboring properties.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other utilities for the
      subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The number of trips generated by potential
      employee(s), the owner, and customers, up to two customers at a time for services, will not have a
      detrimental impact to the area due to the nature of the residence and the availability of onsite parking at
      the subject site. The subject residence has a multi-car driveway. We recommend the employees and
      customers be required to park in the garage and driveway as part of the USE requirements. On-street
      parking could cause access problems along Fayview Lane while it is currently a dead end street during
      the winter or in poor weather. Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate
      a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other utilities;

   2. Parking is available at the residence, and Engineering recommends that all parking be onsite. Onsite
      parking is especially important during winter months when there may be excessive snow on the street
      and where on-street parking may be a safety issue; and

   3. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of the persons
      residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or improvements in the vicinity.


Building Division Review.

       1.       No comments.


Fire Division Review.

       1.       No comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
    EXHIBIT E
SALON FLOOR PLAN
EXHIBIT F
SITE PLAN
       EXHIBIT G
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
   EXHIBIT H
HOUSE FLOOR PLAN
