                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                              February 3, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: February 13, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Draper City General Plan CR – Text Amendment Request
          Applicant:        Draper City
          Project Location: City Wide
          Request:          Draper City approved an update to the General Plan document and map on
                            November 19, 2019. The Regional Commercial land use designation was
                            inadvertently left out of the plan, but was included on the adopted land use
                            map. The proposed General Plan CR Text Amendment will add the
                            Regional Commercial land use designation into the written plan document.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a proposed amendment to the Draper City General Plan. It
will add the Regional Commercial land use designation into the written plan document. The designation
is already included on the Land Use Map.

Utah State Code Section 10-9a-401 requires each municipality to have a General Plan. The intent of this
plan is to provide a long-range plan for present and future needs of the municipality, as well as plan for
future growth and development of all or any part of the land within the municipality. Each General Plan
shall include three elements: land use, transportation and traffic circulation, and moderate income
housing.


ANALYSIS

General Plan. The General Plan was adopted on November 19, 2019. Within the plan there is Exhibit C,
land use categories, which outlines the individual land use categories that can be placed on a property.
These land use categories outline the type of development the City envisions taking place on the property
within the future. Categories include residential, commercial, and special use areas. In total there are 19
categories. The General Plan written document inadvertently left out the Regional Commercial land use
category, although this category was included on the Land Use Map. This request will add the category to
the written document.




Draper City General Plan CR
Text Amendment Request                                 1
The Regional Commercial land use category is characterized by a wide range of commercial uses that
combine destination oriented businesses, retail commercial, entertainment and related uses. It serves both
residents and non-residents and typically has uniform design and landscaping standards. These types of
uses are usually located adjacent to high-traffic corridors and have limited traffic access points. The
typical land use mix is large scale master-planned commercial centers, big box centers, and upscale office
buildings. The compatible zoning designation for this land use category is the CR (Regional Commercial)
zone.

Criteria For Approval. While there are no criteria for approval of a General Plan, there is a purpose
statement for what the plan shall address as found in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-2-
020(B):

          DCMC Section 9-2-020(B):
          B. Purpose: The purpose of the general plan is to provide the city with a comprehensive, long
             range plan for its present and future needs regarding efficient and managed growth and
             development of land within the city. As outlined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-405
             et seq., as amended, the general plan, and any amendments thereto, are intended to be an
             advisory guide for land use decisions within the city excepting those public uses in Utah
             Code Annotated section 10-9a-406, as amended.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Draper
City General Plan CR Text Amendment. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed General Plan complies with Utah State Code Annotated Section 10-9a-404.
          2.        The proposed General Plan complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed General Plan does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).




Draper City General Plan CR
Text Amendment Request                               2
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Draper City General Plan CR Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 3, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Draper City General Plan CR Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 3, 2020 and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Draper City General Plan CR Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, based on the findings
listed in the Staff Report dated February 3, 2020.




Draper City General Plan CR
Text Amendment Request                               3
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed plan amendment conforms to Utah State Code and DCMC.
              EXHIBIT B
REGIONAL COMMERCIAL LAND USE CATEGORY
