MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL RETREAT HELD ON FEBRUARY 28-29,
2020, IN THE MEETING PLACE CONFERENCE ROOM, HYATT PLACE 1819 SOUTH
120 EAST, ST. GEORGE, UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                     Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

STAFF PRESENT:    David Dobbins, City Manager; Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager; Laura
                  Oscarson, City Recorder
________________________________________________________________________

      Mayor and City Council toured Thunder Junction All Abilities park at 1851 South Dixie
      Drive, St. George Utah from 2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. on Friday, February 28, 2020.

February 28, 2020, at 3:30 p.m.

1.0   Review of City projects and issues

1.1   Mayor Walker welcomed everyone to the meeting.

1.2   David Dobbins, City Manager, explained he received discussion items from each of the
      Councilmembers. Those are as follows:

      1. Staff Reports for every item on the agenda.
              a. Council discussed the advisability of staff recommendations on Legislative
                 actions and whether the staff could present the pros and cons of the actions
                 before the council. Council appreciated the information received from the city
                 staff. Council would like the current system to continue.

      2. City information and communication plans.
              a. Interviews for the Communications Director will start in the first week of
                  March. This position will help with the goal of better communication with
                  residents.
              b. Councilmember Green suggested making 30 – 60-second videos to help explain
                  to residents how things are done. Examples he gave were Land Use, and what
                  the Council can and can’t do. Utah League of Cities and Towns Handbook
                  could be a resource.

      The Council agreed this would be a good idea.

              c. Emergency Communication Plan would be another task for the
                 Communication’s Director. The City will release information as soon as
                 possible to the residents. Reverse 911 was discussed, Council felt this could be
                 another idea for a video to educate how residents can sign up for it.
              d. Staff/Council communications were discussed. Mr. Dobbins felt that the
                 communication model was working well and that the staff understood the
           process. If a councilmember had a concern, he or she could send the concern to
           Mr. Dobbins or call the department head and ask a question.
        e. Community Development software was discussed. Mr. Dobbins explained that
           the City would like to better use the data it has. Mr. Fox explained the software
           used by Community Development wasn’t working as was expected. Staff
           training has helped, but the City needs to decide soon whether the program is
           the best fit for the needs of the City.

3. Cemetery
    Council would like to explore options for a second cemetery with the understanding
    that this would mean looking at whether it is financially feasible and if the City was
    responsible for providing another cemetery for its residents. Several sites were
    discussed.

4. Transit-Oriented Development and the Town Center Zone.
    The Council discussed how they would like to see the TC Zone be developed.
    Councilmembers agreed that having a Town Center Master Plan would be useful to
    plan how the area would look in the future. This would include connectivity,
    commercial use, density, gathering places, restaurants, food trucks, Cultural Arts and
    how these elements could fit into this plan. Mr. Fox explained that the City has applied
    for grants to study these areas.

5. Low-income housing overlay
   Councilmember Green stated that low-income housing should be planned and wanted
   to know if there were areas in the City that would be a good fit for low-income housing.
   He was interested in areas with moderate-income housing nearby that residents could
   transition to as their situation improved.

6. Public Safety staffing levels and compensation
   Mr. Dobbins explained that the Police Department was fully staffed and the
   compensation for the officers was competitive. The Fire Department will need funding
   to remain competitive in the current market.

7. Basketball Recreation Center
   The council agreed this was not a high priority.

8. Ice skating and Christmas Village
   The council was interested in the cost of having an outdoor ice skating rink and possibly
   a Christmas Village. Councilmember Vawdrey mentioned that at one time Christmas in
   the Heart of Draper was held, but was not very successful.

9. Open Space encroachment
   Councilmembers agreed that residents encroaching on Open Space were a problem.
   They agreed that a policy was needed on how much time the resident would have to
   return the property to the city, in its natural state. They also wanted the policy to be
   enforceable. The Council also agreed, that if this was going to be a hardship for the
   homeowner, that some leeway could be given on the time frame for compliance.

10. In-fill
    Members discussed the requests for flag lots and infill developments. Council agreed
    that the code needs to be amended for these infill lots. Councilmember Green wondered
    if there were areas that would be better for in-fill.

   ** The meeting recessed for the evening at 7:00 p.m.

   February 29, 2020, at 10:30 a.m.

   Priorities Discussion - Continued

11. Short term rentals
    Mr. Dobbins stated that Draper City does not regulate short term rentals such as Airbnb.
    Council was interested in what State code said about them and was also concerned if the
    City did regulate short term rentals, it would take significant staff time. Councilmember
    Green read state statute and the City has no ability to enforce.

12. Broadband options for residents
    Council agreed that if residents wanted to sign up for broadband services such as Utopia,
    it would not be backed by the City.

13. Draper Days
        a. Rodeo – Mr. Dobbins stated he would like the rodeo to be only 2 days because
           of the staff time. Councilmember Green would like data on the number of seats
           sold and the cost to pay staff.
        b. Parade –
                i. Council would like to know what the City’s liability is if a child was
                   injured while trying to get candy that was thrown during the parade.
               ii. Council would like to continue prohibiting political candidates from
                   participating in the parade.
        c. Draper City Park –
                i. The discussion centered around whether political campaigns had a place
                   at Draper Days at all. If not, would this be a violation of Freedom of
                   Speech? There was a discussion about having all candidate booths in
                   one location.
               ii. Council requested a legal review on the question of whether the City
                   can prohibit groups or individuals from Draper Days.

14. Increase bike-ability of the City
        a. Mr. Dobbins informed the Council about the connectivity of bike trails with
            Bluffdale, Riverton, Sandy, and Lehi. Lehi is working on mountain bike trails
            that will connect to Draper. East-west connections are needed.
        b. The Council would like to see designated bike lanes on roads that are east-west
           and being widened if it makes financial sense.

15. Cybersecurity plan and policy for Draper City employees
    Mr. Dobbins assured the Council that City employees are trained about cybersecurity.
    He gave a recent example of a fraudulent email received by staff that was reported
    correctly.

16. Chamber of Commerce
    The Council discussed the role of both the Draper Chamber of Commerce and the South
    Valley Chamber of Commerce. Councilmember Roberts reported on his conversation
    with Greg Summerhays about how the City could fund its entrance fee into the South
    Valley Chamber.

17. Mr. Dobbins reported on the Parks & Trails 5-Year Plan.
    The council discussed revisiting the park fees and possibly charging fees for entrance to
    the dog parks to help defray the cost of maintenance.


The meeting adjourned at 12:10 p.m.
