MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, APRIL
21, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                     Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                      Oscarson, City Recorder; Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager; Britnee
                      Johnston, Communications Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically. Councilmembers, staff, and residents were able to
participate through Zoom.us.

Study Meeting

1.0   Training: Open and Public Meetings and Ethics

1.1   Mike Barker, City Attorney, explained that to meet their compliance with state law in
      regards to the Open and Public Meetings Act, the state auditor provided a short presentation
      of the Open and Public Meetings Act that Mr. Barker played for those in attendance. He
      said he felt the act was pretty self-explanatory and that there were no significant changes
      to the act by the legislator this year.

      Mr. Barker played the eight-minute video and was available for questions.

1.2   Councilmember Fred Lowry asked about emergency meetings and if the City is in a
      declared state of emergency justified holding emergency meetings when pressing matters
      needed to be addressed.

      Mr. Barker responded that typically an emergency meeting is held to address something
      that has come up and a City Council cannot give proper notice. He explained that in his
      discussion with other attorneys, emergency meetings were typically justified in the cases
      of natural disasters or an instance that was so immediate or needed attention that could not
      meet the 24-hour notice requirement. He said that there wasn’t anything with the pandemic
      at this point that would necessitate such a meeting.

1.3   Mr. Barker continued his Ethics training that was focused on an incident that occurred in
      Utah County that he felt provided a solid framework to talk about some of the principles
      behind the ethics ordinance. The headline that caught Mr. Barker’s attention read, “Three
      Utah County Prosecutors resigned after a defense attorney paid for their Utah Jazz tickets”
      and was published in the Salt Lake Tribune on March 17, 2020.

      He explained that the headline points to the fact that everyone has friends with different
      means who could have access to tickets or other perks that might want to share them and
he felt it was important to address under what circumstances city officials could accompany
someone to a Utah Jazz game and if accepting a ticket to a Utah Jazz game was always
going to create an ethical quandary.

To better understand the situation, Mr. Barker provided some background information
including that the defense attorney and prosecutors were known to be long-time friends.
Although those involved did split some of the pre-meal costs, it was clear that the defense
attorney covered the bill for the seats, each worth between $200 and $300. He noted that
although there was no evidence that the defense attorney provided the tickets in return for
a favorable plea, that wasn’t the reason why the issue was unethical. Rather, the ethical
issue was that the action created public mistrust in the justice system.

Mr. Barker then quoted the goals of Draper City’s Code of Ethics:

    Through this comprehensive ethics code and the related goals, the city will strive to (a)
    elevate the level of ethics in local government; (b) provide honest and responsible
    service to the citizens of Draper City, and (c) maintain the confidence and trust of the
    public that this government deserves.

He emphasized how accepting Jazz tickets could challenge the goals that Draper has
outlined for the City.

Returning to statements made by Utah County Attorney David Leavitt, Mr. Barker
explained that accepting the tickets puts into question if the attorneys could be impartial
moving forward because, as Mr. Leavitt stated, “[we sometimes] decided cases on
relationships, not based on fact.” This duty of impartiality is reflected in Draper City Code
stating the duty, “to treat all citizens the same by not giving special consideration, treatment
or advantage to anyone” (DCM 19-1-030 (C)).

In looking more deeply at the case, it was reported that all three of the prosecutors denied
that the receipt of the tickets influenced how they did their work. For Mr. Barker, this
created the question, “does the acceptance of a gift, irrespective of its cost, have to have a
concrete and tangible influence on how one performs their duties for it to be unethical.”

In response to his question, he said that no, it doesn’t have to have a tangible influence, but
the perception of such an action could cause concern. Concerning gifts, he explained that
Draper City adopted the state code which reads:

    A gift includes: (a) a loan at an interest rate substantially lower than the commercial
    rate than currently prevailing or (b) compensation received for private services
    rendered at rates sustainably exceeding fair market value for the services (UCA 10-3-
    1304).

He emphasized that there are certain times city officials cannot accept gifts, regardless of
their value. These times include if the gift (a) would tend to improperly influence a
reasonable person to depart from the faithful and impartial discharge of public duties, or

                                     Page 2 of 21
         (b) … is primarily a reward for official action taken. He also stated that under no
         circumstance should officials accept a bribe (UCA 76-8-105). However, there are
         circumstances that officials can accept gifts. These times include (a) the occasional
         nonpecuniary gift having a value less than $50; (b) acceptance of a publicly presented
         award in recognition of service; (c) acceptance of a bona fide loan made in the ordinary
         course of business; (d) acceptance of a political campaign contribution; (e) acceptance of
         any other gift which would have been offered to that person if they were not a city
         employee.

         Next, Mr. Barker talked about conflict of interest. In the case of the Jazz tickets, both the
         defense attorney and the prosecutors made claims that they not only didn’t intend to
         influence but would not be influenced by the exchange of the tickets. However, conflict
         of interest goes beyond an actual conflict that may occur (overt acts) but includes the
         perception the public has of a conflict of interest. This distinction was present in the Draper
         City Code DCMC 19-1-080:

             (a) Conduct yourself in your official and private affairs so as not to give a reasonable
                 basis for the impression that you can be improperly influenced in the performance
                 of your public duties.
             (b) Conduct yourselves as to maintain public confidence in your performance of the
                 public trust in the government you represent.
             (c) Avoid even the appearance of conflict between your public duties and private
                 interests.

         It is this third point that Mr. Barker felt the parties involved in the Jazz tickets incident
         “missed the boat” by not recognizing the perception of a conflict of interest. Based on this,
         Mr. Barker recommended that the Council avoid activities that create a real or perceived
         perception that their loyalties were divided between their public responsibilities and private
         life.

         Draper City Code states:

             Every city officer who has an “interest,” as defined in section 19-1-02 of this title, in
             any proposed legislation before the city body shall disclose on the record of the city
             body the nature and extent of such interest. Such officer shall leave the room during
             the discussion concerning the legislation and not participate in the discussion or vote
             upon the matter (DCMC 19-2-010)

         To define an interest, Mr. Barker also referenced Draper City Code (DCMC 19-1-020)
         which defines an interest as a direct or indirect pecuniary benefit or a direct or indirect
         material benefit that accrues to you 1 [the official, relation, or business entity] as a result of

1
 “You” referred to (a) relations by blood or marriage closer than the 4th degree of consanguinity – divorce or separation
does not terminate such relationships; (b) any person or business entity with whom a contractual relationship exists
with the city officer or employee; (c) any business entity in which the city officer or employee is an officer, director,
etc. or who employs the city officer or employees; (d) any business entity which the officer or employee owns more
than 5% of the stock or legal or beneficial ownership.

                                                    Page 3 of 21
an official act or action by or with the city. Contracts or transactions which by their terms
confer the opportunity and right to realize the same benefits to all persons or property
similarly situated are excepted.

Mr. Barker also reminded the Council that another aspect of the City Code is that officials
should not:

   (a) reacquire an interest in any contract or transaction that requires an official act of
       the city (DCMC 19-2-020 (A)).
   (b) disclose confidential information regarding a contract or transaction requiring city
       action or use confidential information to advance your or other financial interests
       (DCMC 19-2-030).
   (c) accept employment that might impair independence of judgment or otherwise
       (DCMC 19-1-070).
   (d) appear before the city body on behalf of someone else, other than your spouse or
       minor children with the exception of a council member appearing before city bodies
       on behalf of a constituent (DCMC 19-1-070).

With conflict, interest, and you defined, Mr. Barker outlined the disclosure rule as outlined
in the city code (DCMC 19-2-010) which states that officials must disclose that they have
an interest in any proposed legislation before the city body on the record of that body and
leave the room to not participate in the discussion or vote. Also, there are duties under
state law. One is obligated to disclose when:

   (a) one has an interest in a business including being an employee, officer, or owner
       with an interest value of $2,000 or more to the Mayor. One must include in the
       disclosure the position held and nature of the interest. There is an ongoing duty to
       disclose one’s interest if one’s position or the value of one’s interest changes.
   (b) one has an interest in a business entity doing or anticipating doing business with
       the city (UCA 10-3-1307).
   (c) One has personal interest or investments that may create a conflict of interest
       between personal interests and public duties (UCA 10-3-1308). Draper City code
       requires recusal if proposed legislation comes before the City Council.

Mr. Barker explained that as the City Attorney he can make public officers’ lives easier by
encouraging city officers and employees to act ethically at all times as outlined in DCMC
19-3-020. To do this he said he was able to provide written advisory opinions upon request
that is binding and protects the officer/employee who acts in good faith. The resulting
opinion becomes a public document, but the person who requested the opinion remains
confidential (DCMC 19-3-010).

To conclude, Mr. Barker, City Attorney, stated that in response to violations of city or state
code, penalties could include misdemeanor and/or felony criminal charges, the voiding of
contracts or transactions by the City, and the removal from office if someone is known to
have intentionally violated the gift prohibitions or to have entered into a transaction in
violation of disclosure requirements (UCA 10-3-1310 & 1312).

                                    Page 4 of 21
1.4   Councilmember Fred Lowry stated that when in doubt he felt that the Council should just
      ask Mr. Barker to ensure that there is no question that there isn’t a conflict.

2.0   Discussion: Potential New Commercial Buffer Zone, a new zone that would act as a
      buffer between the existing residential and commercial zones.

2.1   Maryann Pickering, Planner, explained that there had been some concerns raised recently
      about the impact of commercial development on adjacent residential areas. The City
      Council had requested that staff look into the possible creation of a new zone to help reduce
      the impact. That was the basis of the new zone that would be discussed.

      Ms. Pickering stated that the proposal was largely based on the standards of the Town
      Center. Residential uses would not be permitted. Staff provided a map of properties in
      proximity to the Town Center zone that would need to conform to the adopted Town Center
      design guidelines. The zone would be an option for developers, but the City has no
      intention to rezone any of the existing properties. Ms. Pickering then outlined the proposed
      zone highlights:

         (a) Parking requirements in the new zone would stay the same as those outlined in the
             current code, but the layout of parking would need to be to the side or rear of
             buildings like in the Town Center area.
         (b) Cross access would be required at the time of development or in the future after
             securing a recorded easement for the property.
         (c) Lighting standards would also be the same as the current code. There would be
             some specific requirements for service elements. These include enclosures around
             trash and mechanical equipment as are already standards in the Town Center that
             these items must be screened or incorporated into the building architecture.
         (d) Landscaping requirements would also be in alignment with the current code and
             the standards outlined for the Town Center. Because the zone is intended to provide
             a buffer, there would be a minimum six-foot-tall fencing requirement next to
             residential areas that must be decorative masonry. There would be a maximum
             three-foot fencing height in the front of buildings that would not permit vinyl
             fencing.
         (e) Signs would comply with existing code, but would not include special standards
             like in the Town Center.
         (f) Buildings would be permitted to have a maximum height of two stories or 25 feet.
             Also, the zone would require horizontal and vertical variation that would result in
             breaking up the building architecture. One entrance must be oriented towards the
             street as is required in the Town Center zone. Properties adjacent to the Town
             Center zone would be required to comply with Town Center guidelines, but
             properties not within the proximity of the Town Center would only be required to
             comply with the current code design standards.
         (g) Also similar to the Town Center would be the standards for the reuse of historic
             buildings. The code allows deviations in setbacks and other standards for
             individuals to redevelop their properties to encourage the preservation of existing

                                          Page 5 of 21
             structures. Any building on the National, State, or Local historic inventory would
             be required to be reviewed by the Historic Preservation Commission.
         (h) The permitted and conditional uses in the proposed zone would be similar to the
             Town Center, however, they would be less intensive.

      Ms. Pickering than displayed the map of the suggested properties to be incorporated in the
      proposed zone. She explained that the area cross-hatched in blue is the current Town
      Center zone and the properties colored in yellow are those that they proposed would need
      to maintain the Town Center guidelines as they fell within a 200-foot buffer of the Town
      Center. This area was slightly extended going south on Fort Street to Willow Springs Lane
      and going west on Pioneer Road to 600 East.

      Finally, Ms. Pickering outlined potential actions that could be taken by the Council. These
      included (1) the request to make changes to the text or map of properties subject to Town
      Center guidelines, (2) the directive to staff to move forward to hold public hearings to
      create the zone, or (3) the directive to wait until a future date to move forward. Ms.
      Pickering then opened the meeting for questions, opinions, and discussion.

2.2   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey commented that she would like some additional time to
      look at the proposal given the significance of the change.

2.3   Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, said that the intention tonight was to
      present the proposal to the Council and then give councilmembers time to digest the
      options. Over the next few weeks, staff intended to come back to councilmembers
      individually to get their feedback before moving forward with the outcome to the Planning
      Commission. She wanted to highlight that staff did not include residential commercial
      development in the new zone which was something that had been requested previously by
      the Council to be included.

2.4   Councilmember Fred Lowry commented that when he looks at the map of properties
      subject to the Town Center guidelines, there was one area he felt needed addition review
      along 12300 South and 700 East where the south end of 12300 South was subject to the
      Town Center guidelines, whereas to the north of 12300 South was not. He felt that both
      sides of 12300 South should be subject to the same guidelines.

      Ms. Pickering explained that the blue cross-hatching represents the current areas under the
      Town Center guidelines. Over the past five years, the area Councilmember Lowry pointed
      to had received requests to extend the Town Center zone to the north to allow for
      residential-commercial properties. Some of these types of structures were already being
      developed in that area which would be excluded in the proposed buffer zone. Properties
      within 200-feet were included and squared off. The staff could extend the distance of the
      buffer area.

      Mayor Walker clarified the area that Councilmember Lowry was concerned about.




                                         Page 6 of 21
      Councilmember Fred Lowry asked when staff would like to bring the item back to the
      Council for approval.

      Ms. Oliver said that would be directed by the Council, their feedback, and when they would
      be comfortable with staff providing text to the Planning Commission. She explained that
      each councilmember would be contacted individually. After receiving each member’s
      feedback, staff would then create a new draft for the proposed zone which would again be
      looked at by the Council.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember Fred Lowry discussed the Green Clover Park. He stated that a resident
      had expressed concerns about the fencing that borders the west side of the park. The
      resident reported that some individuals have cut through the fence to cross the railroad
      tracks to the west of the park. He stated that the fence had already been repaired several
      times, but he was concerned about how the City could protect themselves against the hazard
      created by the railroad tracks. He suggested that the City install a block wall, but was
      unsure if that was financially feasible. He also pointed out that south of the park at the
      corner of Vista Station Boulevard there was a property owned by Utah Transit Authority
      (UTA) that does not have a barrier between the property and the railroad track. He
      wondered if the City could enter into a partnership with UTA or Union Pacific to better
      protect this area.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, responded that staff has fixed the chain link fence numerous
      times, including in the past week. He explained that although it is a quiet zone, UTA and
      Union Pacific will use their horns when they see people in the corridor outside of the fence.
      He said that the only option to keep people from cutting through the area would be a
      masonry wall. However, if that wall was installed, people could just go south of the park
      and access the corridor from the property owned by UTA and the City has no property
      rights to put up a wall on that property.

3.2   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, added that although one of the access points
      that often gets cut is at the park, there is also City property to the north where the City has
      a trail. That was another place that often gets cut. Because of this, the fence would need
      to line not only the park’s boundary but also the north boundary through the five or six
      homes that align the trail.

      Mayor Walker wanted to know why this was a City responsibility as opposed to the
      responsibility of Union Pacific.

      Councilmember Fred Lowry said that was his question; did the City have any leverage to
      help get Union Pacific’s attention on the issue.

      Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that he could look into the issue of what the City’s
      exposure was in terms of being liable, as well as getting an estimate on the cost of a
      masonry wall.

                                          Page 7 of 21
      Mayor Walker stated that the City could ask Union Pacific if they care that people are on
      their property. He said that if they do care, it would seem as though they would want to
      put up the wall.

      Mr. Ogden said that if Union Pacific cared was the true question. He said that in his
      experience working with the railroad, it seems as though their stance tends to be that if a
      city wants to keep people out, they should fence it. He said that often they take the stance
      that the railroad was there long before the park, so it wasn’t their problem. He said that the
      City does have this problem in other areas.

      Mayor Walker said that it was a lot cheaper to replace chain link fences if that was Union
      Pacific’s attitude. He asked if Union Pacific doesn’t care why does the City?

      Councilmember Fred Lowry said that he felt it was valuable to have it on record that the
      City did their due diligence and alerted Union Pacific to the problem.

      Mayor Walker said that the City could write Union Pacific a letter to alert them of the
      trespassing on their property.

      Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that Union Pacific and other railroads probably have
      statutes that give them immunity along their rights-of-way. Because of this, he doubts that
      the railroad would feel as though they have any liability.

3.3   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey wanted to talk about the dumpster program. She wanted
      to know if the dumpster program had been working well, as many people have not been
      able to get to the landfill. She wanted to know if the program had been successful overall
      and if there had been any problems with people taking advantage of the program and
      overfilling the dumpsters.

      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that the dumpster program was working. The
      program was structured such that if someone needed a dumpster a resident could rent one
      from the City. However, the City had encountered problems with community rentals of
      dumpsters. For example, in SunCrest, they ordered four dumpsters last weekend and by
      the time the City got the third dumpster there, the second dumpster was full. He said he
      was unsure how to resolve that part of the problem as the City didn’t want to discourage
      community efforts to keep neighborhoods clean.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery thanked Scott Cooley and his staff for doing an excellent
      job cleaning up a big mess. She said that perhaps they need to think about putting a hold
      on the large community clean-ups during the period of the pandemic. She said that it seems
      as though the smaller dumpster rentals between two or three neighbors have gone
      smoothly, it has just been the larger community efforts that have been more challenging to
      manage.

      Mr. Cooley agreed with Councilmember Lowery’s assessment of the situation.

                                          Page 8 of 21
Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if Mr. Cooley had considered a supervisory position
to have someone from the HOA monitor the dropping off of items with the community
dumpsters.

Mr. Cooley said they did have someone present to monitor the dumpsters, who received a
lot of anger and yelling. He said that he understood that it was a frustrating situation;
people are cooped up in their homes and want to clean house resulting in an abundance of
trash that doesn’t fit in their regular cans. He said that he hopes that the number of vouchers
the City has distributed to take items to the landfill will help with the situation.

Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that it was her impression that the landfill vouchers
felt like a better and safer option for her.

Mr. Cooley said that the question was more about citizen’s access to the landfill: i.e., do
they have a vehicle that can transport the trash.

Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey said that the reason why she brought up the issue was
that the dumpster rentals seem to be the City’s go-to solution in response to requests for
community clean-ups. She said that overall, she felt as though the program was working,
but that unless staff communicated otherwise, the Council would not know if there was a
problem.

Mr. Cooley agreed that he felt the program was working except for the neighborhood
dumpster rentals because they don’t have enough personnel or dumpster to accommodate
neighborhoods of that size.

Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that she felt there was some sort of math to this that
outlined the number of households one dumpster could accommodate. She also suggested
that they designate community clean up days to specific neighborhoods in SunCrest, as
opposed to allowing the whole area access to dumpsters on the same day. Mr. Cooley said
that it seems as though a lot of the restrictions the City puts in place are not adhered to.

Councilmember Cal Roberts asked if there was a way to ration out the use of the dumpsters
through a voucher program. He wondered if staff could estimate the number of loads that
could get thrown in the dumpster and then force the community group or HOA to allocate
a limited amount of those to their residences and then self-regulate with the condition that
if the renting organization couldn’t figure out how to do it in an orderly manner the City
would no longer be able to provide the service.

Mr. Cooley said that even when the City takes the dumpsters away, people have still left
trash in those areas. He said the rules only work for as long as people adhere to them. He
said that the volume of items they are receiving during these cleanup days suggests the
amount of trash and large items that need to be taken care of.




                                    Page 9 of 21
      Councilmember Cal Roberts asked if it was just a question of capacity. He asked if
      expanding the capacity (the number of dumpsters) would solve the problem.

      Mr. Cooley said that with the size of the current staff the City can accommodate the number
      of dumpsters the City has for rent and pick those dumpsters up with the regular trash pick-
      up. Increasing the number of dumpsters would put a heavier burden on the system. He
      reiterated that what they are seeing is the indication of a need for a program to dispose of
      large household items. He said that the only area they have seen issues has been up in
      SunCrest.

3.4   John Eining, Police Chief, wanted to go over some statistics from March and April in
      comparison to previous years. He said that they have seen a significant increase in the
      number of cases of domestic violence. Assaults, however, were down 44% compared to
      this time last year. Residential burglaries were down 86% from previous years. Vehicle
      burglaries were down 9%. Criminal mischief was down 54%. Drug offenses were down
      74%. DUIs were down 42%. Domestic violence incidents were up 180%. This number
      includes verbal domestic incidents where no physical violence has occurred, but the
      argument had escalated and gotten out of hand. Fraud cases were down 64%. Sex offenses
      involving a child were down 33%. Traffic accidents were down 50%. Citations were down
      70%. The number of people arrested was down 74%. He said that some of this was by
      design as officers were asked not to have nonessential contact with people.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery clarified the number Chief Eining reported in the increase
      of domestic violence cases.

      John Eining, Police Chief, explained that this year in March and April they have had 42
      domestic violence cases, compared to last year where they had 15 cases. He said that these
      same statistics are being seen across the country.

3.5   Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager, said that staff has started to market the Deer Ridge
      property and hired CBRE to start looking at the sale of that property. He said those
      numbers could be reviewed during a closed meeting.                  However, one of the
      recommendations they provided was to divide the property into multiple lots as opposed to
      trying to sell it as a single 10-acre property. They said that there was more value if they
      sold them as five to seven smaller acre lots than as a single property. He wanted the
      Council’s perspective on if they still wanted to sell the property as a single lot, or if he
      could go ahead and have a developer come in and do one to two-acre parcels.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery stated that she felt it was unfortunate that the City is moving
      forward with the sale of the property right now when the market is crashing.

      Councilmember Fred Lowry said that he would prefer to try and avoid having the property
      divided up into smaller lots.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that the idea was to have the property be more like
      estate lots, the part of the market that was being hit the hardest right now.

                                         Page 10 of 21
Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager, said that according to real estate agents, they have had
some properties that have still moved recently. He said they might have a longer time
frame to market the property, but they could put the sale of the property on hold if that was
the Council’s preference.

Mayor Walker clarified that the property would only be viable if it was six lots. Mr. Fox
said it would carry more value if the property was broken up, but that it could be sold
however the City wanted it to be sold.

David Dobbins, City Manager, said that the property could be sold for more if the City
allowed the property to be subdivided. However, the property would still have value if
sold as an estate lot. He said that for him it was the tradeoff that the City might get more
money, but also get more pushback. He said that the City could put the property out as an
estate lot and see what bids they received. They would not be obligated to accept any of
the offers they received. He said that staff just needed to know if the City was willing to
accept less money by selling it as an estate lot.

Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that it was more important to her that the City sell the
lot correctly, in the way the Council told residents they would sell the property than to get
more money.

Councilmember Cal Roberts said he agreed with Councilmember Lowery’s statement. He
asked what was the incremental value of the property if it were to be subdivided versus
sold as an estate lot. Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager, responded that if the property was
broken up into five to seven lots the City could receive $400,000-$480,000 a lot. He was
unsure of the estimated selling price of the property as a single lot. Councilmember Roberts
also asked if there was a sense of how long the property would stay on the market. Mr.
Fox said that he had not received any information like that yet, but was expecting more
information soon. Councilmember Roberts reiterated that he was more interested in
starting by selling the property as a larger estate lot and letting it sit on the market to be
able to see what they could get. He said he was more concerned with preserving the quality
of life and the open space of that area than making a lot of money.

Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey said she agreed with what had been said previously
about the property. She also stated that she doesn’t feel as though the bottom is falling out
of the real estate market right now as people are still buying and selling. She suggested
they just sit with where they were now.

David Dobbins, City Manager, clarified that staff will market the property as one estate lot.
They will receive offers, but if they don’t find them acceptable, staff will decline the offers
to continue to see what they might receive. They don’t feel any rush to accept an offer.

Councilmember Tasha Lowery said she was okay with them marketing two five-acre
properties, but she didn’t want to see it subdivided into small lots.



                                    Page 11 of 21
      Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager, clarified that they were not talking about allowing a
      large subdivision, but creating several one-acre to two-acre lots.

      Councilmember Fred Lowry clarified that this would be five to six total parcels. Mr. Fox
      said that was correct, but that they could proceed to sell the property as one or two parcels.

**    Councilmember Mike Green left the meeting at 7:00 pm.

Business Meeting

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

3.0   Proclamation: Child Abuse Prevention Month

      Mayor Walker stated that it be proclaimed that Draper City supports the proclamation of
      the Child Abuse Prevention Month.

3.0   Consent Items
      a.    Approval of April 7, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b.    Approval of Resolution #20-20, adopting the 2019 Salt Lake County Hazard
            Mitigation Plan
      c.    Approval of Resolution #20-21, reappointing Lisa Fowler as an alternate
            member of the Draper City Planning Commission

3.1   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey moved to approve the consent items.
      Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

3.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1432, Brooks Lane 1st Development Agreement
      Amendment (Legislative Action), a request by Steve Johns, representing Kaskade
      Homes, LLC, for approval of the 1st Amendment to the Development Agreement on
      approximately 2.223 acres of property in the RM1 (Multi-Family Residential) Zone
      in order to relocate and widen the pedestrian access easement to open space within
      the Brooks Lane Subdivision.

4.1   Pete Kane, Planner, explained that the request was for an amendment to the first
      development agreement for the Brooks Lane subdivision. He explained that the property
      was located off 300 East located near Bangerter Highway and has a land use designation
      of residential medium-high density and was zoned RM1. The land use designation and
      zoning map amendments were approved in November of 2017 when the development
      agreement was approved. The development agreement sets the requirements for the
      development of the property as detached single-family homes, in addition to establishing
      the lot size. The development agreement required a five-foot-wide pedestrian access
      easement between lots 107 and 108. The applicant has requested the easement between

                                         Page 12 of 21
      lots 107 and 108 be widened to eight feet. Mr. Kane showed the existing plat that was
      approved in May of 2019. The pedestrian access was necessary to provide access between
      Share Lane, the north-south private lane in the middle of the property, that would connect
      the area to the open space. He said that the issue was that utilities had already been put in,
      including utility boxes that were installed within the pedestrian access, making it difficult
      for pedestrians to utilize the area. To address this, the developer wants to move the
      easement one block south from being between lots 105 & 106 to being between lots 106 &
      107. By approving the amendment, the Council would allow the plot to be revised without
      requiring a plot amendment. Mr. Kane was available for questions.

4.2   Councilmember Fred Lowry summarized that in passing the amendment, they would
      essentially narrow lots 106 and 107. Mr. Kane responded that the lots would remain the
      same, but the use of the lots would change. It essentially creates a four-foot access
      easement on those properties, but because of the setback requirements, a building would
      not have been able to be constructed in those areas anyway.

4.3   Steve Johns, applicant, felt that Mr. Kane had explained the situation accurately.

4.3   Councilmember Tasha Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1432, Brooks Lane 1st
      Development Agreement Amendment. Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey seconded
      the motion.

4.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1433, BL Smith Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
      Action), on the request of LaMont Smith for approval of a zoning map amendment
      to change the zoning on the property located at 999 East 13200 South from RA1
      (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural,
      20,000 sq. ft. minimum).

**    City Council went into recess at 7:20 p.m. to give time for a technical issue.
**    The Council reconvened at 7:28 p.m.

5.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, Planner, oriented the Council. She said that the property was located
      off of 13200 South just east of Court Street. The property owner has two parcels that exist
      as is with access off of a private lane. One of the lots is deficient in acreage, so the applicant
      proposed that the property be rezoned so that the minimum lot size meets that of his
      property and complies with the code. Both of the properties are current within the RA1
      zone and the applicant is requesting the RA2 zone with a minimum lot requirement of
      20,000 square feet. Based on the zoning map there are already parcels directly west of the
      property that was zoned RA2. The property is the residential medium density land use that
      supports both acre and half-acre lots. Ms. Jastremsky then displayed images of the property
      under discussion. She said that if the applicant was successful in their re-zone request, the
      plan would be to create a minor subdivision to create two lots on the private lane. One of



                                           Page 13 of 21
      the proposed lots would have the existing house and the second property would be a
      buildable lot. The Planning Commission recommended approval on a vote of five to zero.

5.2   LaMont Smith, applicant, explained that the piece of property had been in his family before
      1980 when he acquired the property and it was zoned as an acre. He said the properties
      surrounding the property voted at a City Council meeting to rezone to half-acre properties,
      but he chose to stay at an acre to keep some cattle on the properties back pasture. He said
      that he no longer uses the property for that purpose and decided that it would be appropriate
      to eliminate the one-acre island. He said that both his property and the property to the east
      were both zoned at one acre. He said that in rezoning the property to RA2 he hoped to
      create to half-acre lots. He said he was available to answer any questions the Council might
      have.

5.3   Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if the applicant had an anticipated use for the
      property.

      Mr. Smith said that the use would be to establish a second half-acre lot that could be given
      to one of his children.

5.4   Mayor Walker opened the meeting for public comment. No one came forward so
      Mayor Walker closed the meeting.

5.6   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1433, BL Smith Zoning Map
      Amendment. Councilmember Fred Lowry seconded the motion.

5.7   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey stated that she felt that the request was a reasonable zone
      change.

5.8   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1436, Big Willow Creek 2nd Amendment Development
      Agreement Request (Legislative Action), on the request of Bryon Prince, representing
      Ivory Development, LLC, for a development agreement on 20.9 acres of property
      located approximately at 491 West 11400 South. The amendment will authorize
      various deviations to the Draper City Municipal Code Title 9, Land Use and
      Development Standards, in regards to density allocation and minimum lot size.

6.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, Planner, reminded the Council of the location of the Big Willow Creek
      development that was approved in 2017 with 115 dwelling units. Since the time of
      approval, the applicant made two rezone requests some of which were added to the
      development agreement and some requests that were not added. The areas that were added
      to the Big Willow Creek development had split land use designations, medium density
      residential–which allows for two to four units per acre making quarter and third-acre lots–
      and residential high density–which allows for up to 12 dwellings per land acre. The zoning
      on the properties was changed to R4, or quarter-acre lots, and RM2, which is the residential

                                         Page 14 of 21
multi-family with up to 12 dwellings per acre. The development agreement that was put
on the RM2 area limited density to 9 units per acre.

With the second amendment to the development agreement, the applicant proposed to
incorporate all of the subject property outlined on the zoning map into the development
agreement for Big Willow Creek. The amendment would also designate how the approved
densities would be allocated on the properties. The amendment would not impact the 115
units that were originally proposed. It would impact the 141 dwelling units that were
approved in the subject property that would be incorporated into the development. The
applicant has not asked for an increase in density but to look at how the density would be
spread across the new total area of the development. The development agreement would
still require that any development meet the minimum lot requirement sizes in the RM2
zone. For a single-family detached lot, the subject property would be required to have a
minimum lot size of 4,000 square feet, as per the RM2 zone. All single-family attached
lots in the subject property would be required to have a minimum lot size of 1,000 square
feet, as per the RM2 zone.

The applicant also wanted to address phase two of the development agreement. The
applicant issued a final subdivision plat application for phase two that had been under
review. This phase was not approved due to the subdivision only having one access point.
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC 17-5-030 G) limits developments to 30 lots unless a
second access is provided. Big Willow Creek has an access point from 11400 South, with
a future connection to the south to the Jensen Farms Subdivision. Phase 1A and 1B contain
the 30 allowed lots of this one access point. Jensen Farms had been approved, but the
improvements had not been constructed. The second amendment would allow the
applicant to begin construction of the subdivision improvements of phase two before the
secondary access being provided and before subdivision approval. The applicant
acknowledges in the agreement that the plat would not be eligible for recordation until the
secondary access is completed and that any installation of improvements is at their
economic risks. The staff has concerns about this provision and has outlined the concerns
in Exhibit A of the staff report. The Planning Commission also had concerns about the
language of this part of the proposed amendment.

Before addressing how the language in the development agreement could be changed, Ms.
Jastremsky wanted to make sure everyone on the Council was aware of the location of the
project being discussed. She noted the connection point under discussion on the aerial map
that would connect the Big Willow and Jensen Farms developments. She explained that
with the Big Willow Creek phase 1 development the applicant provided a sub-road to the
southern boundary line to be able to create a connection with the Jensen Farms
development. The Jensen Farms phase one development also includes that discussed
connection to Big Willow within their phase 1B plat. With the approval of the plat, the
City acquired a public right of way easement across the future right of way. Ms. Jastremsky
presented some images of where the Jensen Farm and Big Willow improvements end. She
added that some of the hold up with the developments was that there needed to be a bridge
constructed over Willow Creek.



                                  Page 15 of 21
The Planning Commission recommended approval on a four to one vote with the finding
that approval was subject to the City Council amending the language to its satisfaction
regarding the timing of the secondary access with the approval and record action of the plat
and the issuance of building permits. Ms. Jastremsky noted that since then, the Planning
Commission meeting staff had worked with the applicant to amend the language.

Currently, the amendment for secondary access references paragraph 15 that reads:

       Developer shall have the right to commence construction of phase two of the project
       prior to establishing a second access to the project through the Jensen Farms
       subdivision. Ivory shall not record a final plat or seek building permits for homes
       in phase two until a secondary access connection is established. The secondary
       access shall consist of the full public right-of-way improvements, including but not
       limited to curb, gutter, sidewalk, paved asphalt street, etc. Developer recognizes
       the economic risk of commencing construction prior to its ability to record a plat
       and sell lots.

The staff proposed version reads with key changes in the language underlined:

       Developer shall, upon final approval of the final plat of phase two of the project
       and after obtaining the necessary permits, have the right to commence construction
       of the proposed site improvements of phase two prior to the construction of a
       second access to the project through the Jensen Farms subdivision. A public right-
       of-way easement has been dedicated to the City over the land in Jensen Farms for
       the construction of the second access road to Big Willow. Developer has the right
       to design and construct a second access road through Jensen Farms at Developer’s
       sole cost. Developer acknowledges that the City cannot control the timing of the
       construction of the access road from Big Willow (across Jensen Farms) to 700
       West. Developer recognizes the economic risk of commencing construction prior
       to its ability to record a plat and sell lots.

The proposed language stipulates that Ivory would not seek building permits for homes in
phase two until the City signs the final plat and that the City will not sign the phase two
final plat without one of the following occurring:

   (1) The final drawings for a second access to Big Willow phase two must be approved
       by the City and a bond must be paid for the second access road improvements, or
   (2) The construction of an approved second access to Big Willow phase two had been
       completed and accepted by the City.

The proposed language also stipulates that the secondary access shall consist of the full
public right of way improvements, including, but not limited to curb, gutter, sidewalk,
pavement, asphalt, street, and other requirements as outlined in Draper City Municipal
Code. Furthermore, the City will not:




                                   Page 16 of 21
         (1) Accept a public improvement bond for the improvements in phase two without the
             payment of a public improvement bond for an approved second access to Big
             Willow phase two
         (2) Accept the public improvements for phase two until the phase two final plat is
             recorded and a warranty bond for said improvements has been paid, and
         (3) Issue any building permits for the construction of any homes in phase two until the
             second access to phase two was completed and accepted by the City

      Ms. Jastremsky furthered that the applicant requested some changes to the language
      proposed by staff and presented that to the Council. This language states that the City will
      help facilitate a reimbursement agreement between the applicant and Jensen Farms
      developer if the applicant constructs the secondary access, given that the access is
      technically part of the Jensen Farms subdivision and consequently the responsibility of the
      Jensen Farms developer.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, added that he has been the person speaking with the
      applicant about the proposed language changes. He stated that the applicant has agreed on
      the terms as outlined by Ms. Jastremsky regarding the permits and timelines. What they
      requested was the additional language in red. He said that there were some vagueness and
      ambiguity about the applicant’s request that the City facilitate a reimbursement agreement
      between them and the Jensen Farms developers. While Mr. Dobbins understands the intent
      and feels that it was a fair request if Ivory is building the infrastructure outside of their
      development, they should be reimbursed. The City, however, doesn’t quite have the
      language to capture this request tonight. What the City staff and the applicant are wrestling
      with is finding the right language that both protects the City, but also gives the applicant
      the right to seek reimbursement.

6.2   Bryon Prince, applicant, thanked Ms. Jastremsky for her efforts to communicate a
      complicated situation. He wanted to clarify that as a developer they were not seeking
      additional density. When they acquired the additional 20 acres last year allowing for 141
      additional dwellings they wanted to be able to build more single-family dwellings instead
      of doing more townhomes. In regards to the access issue, Mr. Prince said that the approval
      of the Big Willow Creek development in 2017 corresponded with the death of a young
      child on 700 West. Because of this, the Council was concerned about there being a road
      connection from 11400 South to 700 West and therefore required both Big Willow Creek
      and Jensen Farms to construct roads connecting the two subdivisions in the first phase.
      Ivory developers agreed to this and built the road, where the original developers of Jensen
      Farms found a way to get out of that obligation through the sale of land to the school district
      and the LDS Church, leaving Big Willow Creek in a tough spot when they didn’t develop
      the connection. Because of this, Ivory wants to be able to start the site improvements so
      that they can have lots going into next year with the hope that the Jensen Farm developers
      follow through with building the connection later this year. In regards to the reimbursement
      agreement, Ivory is willing to work with staff to develop that language so that they can
      move forward with construction and keep contractors busy.




                                          Page 17 of 21
      Councilmember Fred Lowry thanked Byron Prince, the applicant, for providing the Council
      with some additional information and background on the history of the two developments.
      He said that he appreciated that the developer was not adding to the density, but spreading
      it out by constructing additional single-family homes. He was concerned, however, that
      the item should just be continued to ensure that the right language was included in the
      development agreement concerning reimbursement.

6.3   Mayor Walker stated that this was a public hearing and asked if there was anyone from the
      public who wanted to address the Council.

6.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

      Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager, stated that he thought there was one person on the line
      who was interested in making a public comment. He stated that if that was true, could the
      resident utilize the raise hand function in Zoom so that he could unmute the resident.

6.5   While waiting for the resident to make a public comment, David Dobbins, City Manager,
      stated that several comments were submitted online regarding this item. These comments
      were provided to the Council via email but needed to be acknowledged on the public record.

6.6   Craig Holt, resident, explained that he had been around since the Big Willow Creek
      Development started. He said that Jensen Farms was supposed to put the bridge in during
      their first phase of development. He said that he has people who want to build homes
      within the development who are unable to because they cannot get access and he was
      frustrated because this problem has been going on for a long time.

      Mr. Dobbins stated that one of the reasons why there was a delay in development was
      because the applicant was waiting for approval from the Army Corps of Engineers which
      took significantly longer than expected. The applicant had been working through that with
      the City and had a legitimate reason for the delay.

6.6   Mayor Walker acknowledged that Mr. Holt was the first public comment through the
      online meeting format and thanked Mr. Holt for his participation before he closed the
      public hearing.

6.7   Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked Mr. Prince if he was able to see the comments that
      were submitted to the public record.

      Mr. Prince stated that he did have the chance to review the comments that were submitted
      for public record.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery stated that the comments concerned an increase in traffic
      and an increase in density. She said that it seemed to her that the applicant had already
      addressed those concerns given that they were not requesting an increase in density.




                                        Page 18 of 21
      Mr. Prince said again that they did not intend to increase the density. He added that when
      Big Willow Creek acquired the additional acreage and the additional 141 dwelling
      allotment, they did conduct a traffic study that was analyzed by staff. This was considered
      by the Council when the properties and land use were changed. He said that they simply
      want to be able to distribute the densities differently to be able to build more single-family
      dwellings.

      Given this, Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if the claim could be made that they were
      reducing the densities.

      Mr. Prince said that the counter-argument was that if they build larger single-family homes
      would that result in more people in a single unit versus a townhome that had more cars. He
      said that ultimately, it would be hard to argue that there would be an increase in the density.

6.8   Councilmember Tasha Lowery moved to continue Ordinance #1436, Big Willow
      Creek 2nd Amendment Development Agreement Request to the May 5, 2020, City
      Council meeting. Councilmember Fred Lowry seconded the motion.

6.9   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1435, Restaurant Sign Text Amendment (Legislative
      Action), on the request of Justin Grubb with YESCO LLC to amend Chapter 9-26-
      070(7)(e) of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) to accommodate electronic
      message menu boards for restaurant drive-throughs.

7.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, explained that the applicant was looking to make some
      more modern upgrades to their restaurant drive-through menus to be able to use electronic
      message center signs and liquid crystal signs so that they are easier for customers to read.
      This would allow them to switch their menus throughout the day. On April 2, 2020, the
      Planning Commission voted five to zero in favor of the applicant’s request for a text
      amendment. In section 9-26-070 of the Draper City Municipal Code on permitted on
      premises permanent signs, item (7) part (e) would read:

             Such signs shall be illuminated internally, backlit or illuminated digitally by means
             of EMC or LCD subject to requirements in section 9-26-060 (G) and the
             illumination standards found in section 9-26-090 (D)(1)(f) and section 9-20-040
             (B).

      Mr. Van Ekelenburg was available for questions.

7.2   Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if these sorts of signs were already in place at some
      drive-throughs. Mr. Van Ekelenburg said that he did not know.




                                          Page 19 of 21
7.3   Justin Grubb, the applicant, said that he was present to answer questions. He said that they
      were looking for the text change to support some restaurants that were looking to upgrade
      and make it easier for them to control their signs and have them look a little cleaner.

7.4   Councilmember Fred Lowry asked if the applicant had encountered the use of backlighting
      or neon lights with any of the proposed signs.

      Mr. Grubb said that most of them are essentially backlit. He said that the signs utilized
      LED lights and that neon lighting was out the door and had, “become a lost art.” He said
      that this was proposed to help businesses keep up with advances in technology.

7.5   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one was online to speak so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

7.8   Councilmember Fred Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1435, Restaurant Sign
      Text Amendment. Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

7.9   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1434 Highline CSD Signage Text A (Legislative Action),
      on the request of Justin Grubb with YESCO LLC for approval of a Text Amendment
      to the sign area requirements in the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-
      18K-070 Signage in the Highline Commercial Special District (CSD) Zone. S

8.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, explained that the applicant, Justin Grubb, had requested
      a text amendment to increase the allowed sign area in the CSD Highline zone which is
      smaller than what is allowed in the Draper City Municipal Code regarding the regular sign
      ordinance. Mr. Van Ekelenburg explained that in September of 2016 the City Council
      approved ordinance #1215 creating the Highline Commercial Special District (CSD). The
      creation of the district was for a mix of uses including retail, office, and multi-family
      housing. The site is approximately 70.6 acres in size. The applicant stated that viewing
      distances from vehicles or traffic on 1-15 or surrounding streets make the current sign size
      maximums incompatible and results in signs that are too small for large buildings such as
      PluralSight and the Point of View Apartments. The sign area in the text amendment would
      include the rest of the area of the Highline CSD and proposes a standard that is more
      compatible with the regular Draper City Municipal Code 9-26-070. The text amendment
      would also provide a maximum size per building façade for the CSD Highline zone area
      that will enable size controls ensuring that the proper sign size can be created to fit into
      particular existing and future developments. On April 2, 2020, the Planning Commission
      recommended approval of the text amendment with a vote of five to zero. Mr. Van
      Ekelenburg was available for questions.

8.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one was online for the public hearing,
      so Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.



                                         Page 20 of 21
8.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1434, Highline CSD Signage
      Text Amendment. Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

8.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember Fred Lowry moved to adjourn the meeting,

9.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.


9.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.




                                      Page 21 of 21
