Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: December 17, 2020
Re: HCA Lone Peak Hospital Dietary and Imaging Expansion - Site Plan Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of an amended site plan for approximately 35.98 acres located on the east side of State Street at approximately 11925 South State Street.  The applicant is requesting that an amended site plan be approved to allow for an expansion of approximately 17,000 square feet to the existing Lone Peak Hospital facility.  The applicant is also requesting Draper City Municipal Code deviations for building materials.  When the original hospital was built, it was built primarily of EIFS as an exterior material.  The applicant would like to use EIFS on the addition to match the original. The findings are as follows: Materials Deviation:
For materials deviation approval:
1. That the requested deviations comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(B) and meet the criteria for approval.
For materials deviation denial:
1. That the requested deviations do not comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(B) and do not meet the criteria for approval.
Site Plan:
For site plan approval:
1.  The site plan shall conform to applicable and approved standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For site plan denial:
1.  The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in Title 9 of the DCMC including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 12/10/2020 Backup Material