                                      Development Review Committee
                                          1020 East Pioneer Road
                                            Draper, UT 84020
                                              August 3, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: August 13, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Crossgrove House Amended Lot 2 – Amended Plat Request
          Application No.:  SUBD-1010-2020
          Applicant:        David Smith
          Project Location: 12726 Boulter Street
          Current Zoning:   RA2 (Residential Agricultural) Zone
          Acreage:          0.48 Acres (Approximately 20,909 ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of an Amended Plat in the RA2 (Residential
                            Agricultural) zone amending the Crossgrove House Subdivision for the
                            development of lot 2 for a single family home.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of an Amended Subdivision for approximately 0.48 acres
located on the west side of Boulter Street, at approximately 12726 South Boulter St. The property is
currently zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimums). The applicant is
requesting that an Amended Subdivision be approved to allow for the development of a single family
dwelling (Exhibit B).

The property was subdivided on February 7, 2018. The applicant at that time obtained special exceptions
on the property for Lot 1 in order to ensure the historic home on the site was maintained and not
demolished, and Lot 2’s access was limited to Boulter Street. This was due to the fact that the adjacent
Tanburhan Lane is a private street and the then applicant did not have access rights to the lane. The
current applicant has since obtained the legal right to access the lane from the lane owners. The Plat
Amendment will remove a note on the original plat that prohibited access to Tanburhan Lane.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Low-Medium Density
land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as follows:




Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2                                                    App. # SUBD-1010-2020
Amended Subdivision Plat                              1
The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
unit per acre (Exhibit D). The purpose of the RA2 zone, per Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020, is “The purpose of the RA1 and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with
little impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's
semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the
keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be
detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.” The
RA1 zoning abuts the subject property on the north and west, and RA2 abuts on the south and east.

Subdivision Layout.. The applicant is proposing two changes to the plat; the first change will remove the
note 5 from the plat (Exhibit F). This note states, “No Lots will have access to Tanburhan Lane, a private
drive.” The second change will add additional asphalt to the width of Tanburhan Lane. The lane will be
21-feet in width and comply with asphalt width standards. The minimum building setbacks for the lot will
be 30-feet from both Tanburhan and Boulter Street, and 12-feet rear setbacks from the south and west
property lines. (Exhibit E).


Street Improvement Deviation. The applicant has submitted a request to deviate from the required street



Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2                                                     App. # SUBD-1010-2020
Amended Subdivision Plat                             2
standards. Specifically the applicant is requesting to eliminate the curb and gutter requirements for the
private lane.

DCMC Section 17-5-030(D) states: ”Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be
installed on existing and proposed streets by the subdivider in all subdivisions. The Planning Commission
may, after receiving a recommendation from City staff, modify or waive the street design requirements.

Tanburhan Lane serves five homes. The proposed reconfiguration of the Lot 2 access will create a sixth
lot on the lane. Per the private lane standards within DCMC, a private lane serving six to ten lots shall
have at least 21-feet of asphalt, plus gutter and curb. The applicant is proposing to widen the lane along
the full length of the lot so the lane contains 21-feet of asphalt, but would like to eliminate the curb and
gutter standard. Tanburhan Lane does not contain curb and gutter along any portion of its frontage.

The Engineering Division is recommending that the applicant be granted a waiver from street design
requirements per the above section.

 Criteria For Approval. The grounds for review and potential approval of a subdivision plat amendment
request is found in Section 17-9-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard
of review for such requests as:

          The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an
          amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is
          good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has
          been vacated or amended.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Plat Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.




STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a



Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2                                                        App. # SUBD-1010-2020
Amended Subdivision Plat                              3
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                    and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                    construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                    of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
          3.        That note 2 on the plat be amended to show a 12-foot rear setback and remove the
                    reference to a side yard setback.
          4.        That the plat be amended to show a 20,072 square feet net lot size, accounting for the
                    gross lot size minus the access easement and the additional asphalt on Tanburhan Lane.
          5.        That the plat be amended to show an access easement for the users of Tanburhan Lane on
                    the new asphalt areas.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        That there is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-
                    way, or easement has been vacated or amended.
          2.        The Draper City Engineering Division agrees with the Wilding Engineering findings on
                    the elimination of curb and gutter requirement on Tanburhan Lane. .

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        That there is not good cause for the vacation or amendment; and a public street, right-of-
                    way, or easement has been vacated or amended.


MODEL MOTIONS
Street Improvement Deviation Motion
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation requested to waive Street Design
Requirements, as requested by Draper City Staff, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation requested to waive Street
Design Requirements, as requested by Draper City Staff, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020, and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation requested to waive Street Design
Requirements, as requested by Draper City Staff, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020.


Amended Plat Motions




Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2                                                         App. # SUBD-1010-2020
Amended Subdivision Plat                                4
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2, as
requested by David Smith, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot
2, as requested by David Smith, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020, and as modified by the findings and conditions
below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2, as requested
by David Smith, application SUBD-1010-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated August 3, 2020.




Crossgrove House Amended Plat Lot 2                                                    App. # SUBD-1010-2020
Amended Subdivision Plat                             5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed plat complies with Draper City Municipal Code.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Tanburhan Lane does not meet private street standards of DCMC 9-27-150. Engineering
       Department agrees with the findings of Wilding Engineering to deviate from this standard provided
       that proper approvals are obtained.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT E
PROPOSED PLAT
     CROSSGROVE HOUSE SUBDIVISION AMENDED LOT 2
                                                                                                                                              SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE



                      LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                               SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                        FINAL PLAT
                                                         JUNE 2020
                                                                                                                                              BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                 LEGEND




                                                                                                                                              NARRATIVE

POINT OF BEGINNING                                                                                                                            BASIS OF BEARING



                                                                                                                                              OWNER'S DEDICATION


                                                                                                                                                 CROSSGROVE HOUSE SUBDIVISION LOT 2




                                                                                                                           VICINITY MAP

                                                                                                                   SITE
                                                                                                                                              ACKNOWLEDGMENT




                                                                                                                                              CORPORATE ACKNOWLEDGMENT




                                                           BOARD OF HEALTH           CENTURYLINK    ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER          WATERPRO




                                                                                                                                              LOCATED IN THE NORTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 33, TOWNSHIP 3 SOUTH, RANGE 1 EAST,
                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN

            SOUTH VALLEY SEWER       PLANNING COMMISSION                 CITY ENGINEER             APPROVAL AS TO FORM           CITY MAYOR
                                                                                                                                              RECORDER'S OFFICE
       EXHIBIT F
EXISTING RECORDED PLAT
