Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Pete Kane
CC:  Date: May 5, 2020
Re: Public Hearing - Grading and Slope Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a few text amendments.  These text amendments have been initiated by the City and are being proposed in order to mitigate perceived building heights. When a property, or street, has existing or added grading and slope, the buildings can appear taller than the actual measured height.  The proposed text amendments will affect Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Chapters 9-3 and 9-27. These changes would apply citywide.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their April 9, 2020, hearing, received public comment, and voted unanimously (5-0) for positive recommendation on the request. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1431 4/30/2020 Cover Memo Staff Report 4/15/2020 Cover Memo