                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1428


AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 12 OF THE
DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION.


       WHEREAS, Title 12 regulates construction areas prone to flooding as determine through
the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) operated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA); and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise the Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
of Salt Lake County and Utah County and incorporated areas which are codified in the Draper
City Municipal Code to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed text amendment and finds good
cause to revise the terms and provisions of Title 12.

      NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings
to amend Title 12 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) The proposed amendment is in
compliance with the Utah Code Annotated. 2) The proposed amendment is in the best interest of
the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.

        Section 2. Revision. Title 12 of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby amended to
read as shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

        Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors prior to submitting the Ordinance
to Sterling Codifiers.

        Section 4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THIS _____ DAY OF APRIL, 2020.

ATTEST:                             DRAPER CITY



_________________________________   _____________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder       Mayor Troy K. Walker
VOTE TAKEN:             YES      NO

Councilmember Green     ______   ______

Councilmember Lowery    ______   ______

Councilmember Roberts   ______   ______

Councilmember Vawdrey   ______   ______

Councilmember Lowry     ______   ______

Mayor Walker            ______   ______
EXHIBIT A
                              Chapter 1
                      FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
12-1-010: PURPOSE:
12-1-020: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
12-1-030: DEFINITIONS:
12-1-040: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
12-1-050: ADMINISTRATION:
12-1-060: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURE:
12-1-070: GENERAL STANDARDS:
12-1-080: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
12-1-090: FLOODWAYS:
12-1-100: APPEAL:
12-1-1100: PENALTY:

12-1-010: PURPOSE:


It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
residents of Draper City, Utah, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:

A. Protect human life and health;


B. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;


C. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken
    at the expense of the general public;


D. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;


E. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone
    and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;


F. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood prone
    areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas;


G. Ensure potential buyers are notified that property is in a special flood hazard area.

12-1-020: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:

In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
A. Restricting or prohibiting uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and property in times of flood,
    or that cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;


B. Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected
    against flood damage at the time of initial construction;


C. Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers,
    which help accommodate floodwaters;


D. Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage;
    and


E. Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters
    or which may increase flood hazards in other areas.

12-1-030: DEFINITIONS:

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to
give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable
application:

ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform
which originates at the apex and is characterized by high velocity flows, active processes of erosion,
sediment transport, and deposition and unpredictable flow paths.

APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the major stream
that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation of any provision of
this chapter or a request for a variance.

AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AH, AO, or VO zone on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of
one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.

AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as zone A on the flood
hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for
publication of the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zone A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or
V.

BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.

BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade or below ground level on all sides.
  CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system, without
  which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.

  DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
  limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
  drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.

  ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30,
  AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a building
  in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the
  elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns, posts and piers, or
  shear walls parallel to the floor of the water; and b) adequately anchored so as not to impair the
  structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case
  of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building
  elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the
  unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also
  includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building" even though the lower
  area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
  60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.

  EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the "start
  of construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
  FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing
  structures".

  EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
  subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
  homes are to be affixed, including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
  streets, and either final site grading or the placing of concrete pads, is completed before the effective
  date of this chapter.

  EXPANSION TO EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
  of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
  homes are to be affixed, including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
  final site grading or the placing of concrete pads.

  FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the fFederal eEmergency
  mManagement aAgency (“FEMA”) has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
  risk premium zones applicable to the city.

  FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (“FIS”): The official report provided by the fFederal eEmergency
  mManagement aAgency (FEMA) that includes flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
  flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.

  FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
  normally dry land areas from:

A. The overflow of inland or tidal waters;

B. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source; or
C. Mudslides including mudflows and debris flows which are proximately caused by flooding and are
  akin to a river of liquid, flowing mud or debris on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when
  earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.

  FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have been
  authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify
  flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to a special flood
  hazard and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
  reservoirs, levees or dikes constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.

  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive
  measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
  flood control works and floodplain management regulations.

  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
  building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances, such as a floodplain ordinance,
  grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance, and other applications of police power. The term
  describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
  purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.

  FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
  from any source.

  FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
  adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
  property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

  FLOODWAY OR REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
  adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
  increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

  FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is
  located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
  facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding
  and ship repair facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing facilities.

  HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
  construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

  HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:

A. Listed individually in the national register of historic places maintained by the department of the
   interior or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
   individual listing on the national register;

B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the historical
   significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to
   qualify as a registered historic district;

C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation programs
  which have been approved by the secretary of the interior; or
D. Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities with historic preservation
  programs that have been certified either:

1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior, or

2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.

  LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
  accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as to
  provide protection from temporary flooding.

  LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in
  accordance with sound engineering practices.

  LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement. An unfinished
  or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an
  area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
  enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design
  requirements of section 60.3 of the Nnational Fflood iInsurance pProgram (“NFIP”) regulations.

  MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
  permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to
  the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".

  MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land divided
  into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

  MEAN SEA LEVEL: For the purposes of the national flood insurance program, the national geodetic
  vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on the city's
  flood insurance rate map are referenced.

  NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for which the
  "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December
  31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
  floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
  construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
  adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.

  NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
  subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
  homes are to be affixed, including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
  streets, and either final site grading or the placing of concrete pads and which is completed on or
  after the effective date of this chapter.

  READY FOR HIGHWAY USE: A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or
  jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices,
  and has no permanently attached additions.

  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:

A. Built on a single chassis;
B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;

C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and

D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
  recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.

  START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
  permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or
  other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start
  means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the placing of
  slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage
  of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
  does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading or filling; nor does it include the
  installation of streets or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
  foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
  accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
  structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of
  any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
  external dimensions of the building.

  STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, or manufactured
  home that is principally aboveground.

  SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
  restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of
  the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

  SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement
  of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
  structure before the start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which
  have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does
  not, however, include either:

A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
   sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
   official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or

B. Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the structure's
   continued designation as a historic structure.

  VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter when specific
  enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
  development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter. See section 60.6 of the national flood
  insurance program regulations.

  VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the city's
  floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation
  certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4),
  (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations or the
  provisions of this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
  provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic vertical datum
(NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, where specified, of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies
in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.

12-1-040: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

A. Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood
    hazards within the jurisdiction of Draper City.


B. Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of special flood hazard
    identified by the federal emergency management agency in a scientific and engineering report
    entitled "The Flood Insurance Study” for Salt Lake County, Utah And Iincorporated Aareas dated
    September 25, 2009 aAnd “The Flood Insurance Study” for Utah County, Utah Aand
    Iincorporated Aareas", dated June 19, 2020September 25, 2009, with accompanying fFlood
    iInsurance rRate mMap (“FIRM”) and Fflood bBoundary-fFloodway mMaps (“FBFM”) and any
    revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.


C. Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or
    altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.


D. Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair
    any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
    another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever
    imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.


E. Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:

            1.    Considered as minimum requirements;

            2.    Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

            3.    Deemed to neither limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.


F. Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
    considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
    considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be
    increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the
    areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
    flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of Draper City or any officer or
    employee thereof, or the federal emergency management agency for any flood damages that
    result in reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord.
    914, 9-22-2009)

12-1-050: ADMINISTRATION:

    A. A. Designation Of Floodplain Administrator and Development Permits:
           1. The cCity community development directorEngineer Senior Engineer Manager or
              other engineer as designated by the City Engineer is hereby appointed to administer
              and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit Land
              Disturbance Permit applications in accordance with its provisions.

           2. Development permit applications shall have the same meaning as Land Disturbance
              Permit applications as defined in 18-1-030 of the Draper City Municipal Code.
              Throughout the remainder of this chapter, the term “Land Disturbance Permit” may
              be used in place of the term “development permit.”


B. Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator: Duties and responsibilities of the
    floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

           1.   Maintaining and holding open for public inspection all records pertaining to the
                provisions of this chapter;

           2.   Reviewing permit applications to determine whether proposed building sites,
                including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
                flooding;

           3.   Reviewing, approving or denying all applications for development permitLand
                Disturbance Permits required by adoption of this chapter and Title 18;

           4.    Reviewing permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
                 have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental agencies,
                 including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
                 1972, 33 USC 1334, from which prior approval is required;

           5.    Making the necessary interpretation as to the exact location of the boundaries of
                 the areas of special flood hazards where, for example, there appears to be a
                 conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions;

           6.    Notifying, in riverine situations, adjacent communities, Salt Lake County flood
                 control, Utah division of water rights stream alterations and the Utah national flood
                 insurance program coordinator of the Utah department of public safety division of
                 homeland security prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
                 evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency;

           7.    Assuring that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of
                 any watercourse is maintained;

           8.    When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
                 subsection 12-1-040(B), "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard",
                 of this chapter, obtaining, reviewing and reasonably utilizing any base flood
                 elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, in
                 order to administer the provisions of sections 12-1-070, "General Standards"; 12-1-
                 080, "Specific Standards"; and 12-1-090, "Floodways", of this chapter;

           9.    When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, requiring that no new
                 construction, substantial improvements, or other development including fill shall be
                 permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on the city's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated
                 that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
                 other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
                 elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the city; and

           10.   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national flood
                 insurance program regulations, approving certain development in zones A1-30, AE,
                 AH, on the city's FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the base
                 flood by more than one foot (1'); provided, that the city first applies for a conditional
                 FIRM revision through FEMA (conditional letter of map revision).


C. Permit Issuance Procedures: A development permitLand Disturbance Permit shall be obtained
    before construction or development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in
    subsection 12-1-040B of this chapter. Application for a development permitLand Disturbance
    Permit shall be made on forms furnished by the floodplain administratoraccording to Title 9 or
    Title 17 and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the
    nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the proposed landscape alterations, existing or
    proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, fill, storage of materials,
    drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is
    required:

           1.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement) of
                 all new and substantially improved structures;

           2.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure shall
                 be floodproofed;

           3.    Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that the
                 floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing
                 criteria in subsection 12-1-080B of this chapter;

           4.    A description of the extent to which any watercourses or natural drainage will be
                 altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and

           5.    A Four (4) full and complete set of size sets of the final plans, specifications,
                 certifications and computations in electronic format compatible with the city’s
                 systems and hard copy of two (2) sets of eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17")
                 plans, specifications, certifications, and computations.


D. Approval And Endorsement: Upon issuance of the development permitLand Disturbance Permit,
    the floodplain administrator shall endorse in writing, or stamp "Approved" on all required sets of
    plans and specifications. The floodplain administrator shall retain two (2) sets, one full size and
    one half size, of the plans and specifications during the period of construction and as thereafter
    required in subsection B1 of this section. The floodplain administrator shall return one set of the
    approved plans and specifications to the applicant. The applicant shall retain the approved set of
    plans and specifications at the site covered by the development permitLand Disturbance Permit
    at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress. The remaining plan set and
    specifications shall be used for city inspection and related field reviews.
  E. Approval Or Denial Of A Development PermitLand Disturbance Permit By Floodplain
      Administrator: The floodplain administrator shall, based upon all of the provisions of this chapter
      and Title 18r, approve or deny the development permitLand Disturbance Permit in accordance
      with the following relevant factors:

              1.     The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;

              2.     The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the
                     effect of such damage on the individual owner;

              3.     The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;

              4.     The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;

              5.     The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
                     vehicles;

              6.     The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions,
                     including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and
                     facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;

              7.     The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the
                     floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

              8.     The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;

              9.     The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage,
                     for the proposed use; and

              10.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.

  12-1-060: VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROCEDURE:

  A. Appeal Board:

1. The Draper City council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the
   requirements of this chapter.

2. The Draper City council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in any
   requirement, decision, or determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
   administration of this chapter.

3. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Draper City council, may appeal such decision to the
   district court, as provided by law.

4. In considering appeals and variances, the city council shall consider all technical evaluations, all
   relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this chapter; and

a. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
b. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such
   damage on the individual owner;

c. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;

d. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;

e. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;

f. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including maintenance
   and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
   water systems;

g. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters and
   the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

h. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;

i. The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding or erosion damage for the proposed
    use; and

j. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.

5. Upon consideration of the factors of subsection A4 of this section and the purposes of this chapter,
   the Draper City council may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
   necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.

6. The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions, including technical
   information, and report any variances to the federal emergency management agency upon request.


  B. Conditions For Variances:

1. Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be
   erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
   existing structures constructed below the base flood level, provided subsection A4 of this section has
   been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
   required for issuing the variance increases.

2. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements and for other
   development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided:

a. The criteria outlined in this section are satisfied, and

b. The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the
   base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.

3. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on
   the national register of historic places or the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the
   procedures set forth in the remainder of this section. Such variances may be upon a determination
   that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
  historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
  design of the structure.

4. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during
   the base flood discharge would result.

5. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
   considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

6. Variances shall only be issued upon:

a. A showing of good and sufficient cause;

b. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the
   applicant; and

c. A determination that granting the variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats
   to public safety, or extraordinary public expense, and that it will not create nuisances, cause fraud on
   or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws.

7. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be
   permitted to be built with the lowest floor below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood
   insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (Ord. 914, 9-22-2009)

  A. Appeal Board: An appeal board (“Appeal Board”) consisting of the Public Works Director and a
  designated employee of the City Engineer’s office is hereby established. The Appeal Board shall
  hear and render judgement on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.

  B. The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged there is
  an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain Administrator in the
  enforcement or administration of this ordinance.

  C. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal such
  decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.

  D. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal and shall
  report variances to FEMA upon request.

  E. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on
  the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to
  the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.

  F. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected on a
  lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
  constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in 12-1-010(C) have been fully
  considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
  issuing the variance increases.
G. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this ordinance, the Appeal
Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose and objectives of this title.

H. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.

I. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.

J. Prerequisites for granting variances:

            1.     Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
                   minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

            2.     Variances shall only be issued upon:

                      a. showing a good and sufficient cause;
                      b. a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
                         hardship to the applicant; and
                      c. a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
                         flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
                         expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
                         conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.



K. Any application for which a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will
be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the
cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced
lowest floor elevation.

L. Variances may be issued by the city for new construction and substantial improvements and for
other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:

                 1. the criteria outlined in 12-1-060(I) are met; and
                 2. the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
                    damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.




12-1-070: GENERAL STANDARDS:
A. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following are required for all new construction and
substantial improvements:

    1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and
      adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
      resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and
        practices that minimize flood damage;

      3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials
        resistant to flood damage;

      4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical,
        heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities
        that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
        within the components during conditions of flooding.

      5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
        infiltration of flood waters into the system;

      6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
        infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into flood
        waters; and,

      7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
        contamination from them during flooding.
  A. Anchoring:

1. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
   or lateral movement of the structure and shall be capable of resisting the hydrostatic and
   hydrodynamic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.

2. All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
   movement and shall be capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of
   anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
   forces. Anchoring may include:

a. Over the top ties provided at each of the four (4) corners of the manufactured home, with two (2)
   additional ties per side at intermediate locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50')
   long requiring one additional tie per side; and

b. Frame ties provided at each corner of the home with five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate
   points, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per
   side.

3. All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a force of four thousand eight
   hundred (4,800) pounds; and

4. Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.


  B. Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
      constructed:

1. With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
2. Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and

3. With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service
   facilities that are designed and located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
   the components during conditions of flooding.


  C. Utilities:

1. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
   of floodwaters into the new system.

2. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
   of floodwaters into the systems and discharge from the systems into floodwaters.

3. On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from
   them during flooding.


  D. Subdivision Proposals:

1. All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.

2. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
   water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.

3. All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
   damage.

4. Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals and other proposed
   development which contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. (Ord. 914, 9-22-
   2009)

  12-1-080: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:

  In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in
  subsection 12-1-040(B), "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", or 12-1-050(B)(8),
  or 12-1-080(F) of this chapter, the following provisions are required:

           A. Residential Construction: new construction and substantial improvement of any
  residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to or above the base
  flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
  certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in 12-1-
  050C is satisfied.

1. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest
   floor, including basement, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.

2. Within any AO zone on the city's FIRM, all new construction and substantial improvements of
   residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest
  adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the city's FIRM, or at least
  two feet (2') if no depth number is specified.

3. Within zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes are required to
   guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.

4. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
   floodplain administrator that the requirements of this section are satisfied.


            B. Nonresidential Construction: new construction and substantial improvements of any
  commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including
  basement) elevated to or above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
  facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
  substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
  capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
  professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
  plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in
  accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
  certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
  structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.

1. New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
   structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the
   base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:

a. Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the structure is watertight with walls
   substantially impermeable to the passage of water;

b. Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
   buoyancy; and

c. Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the design and methods of
   construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this
   chapter. Such certifications shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
   subsection 12-1-050C3 of this chapter.

2. Within any AO zone on the city's FIRM, all new construction and substantial improvements of
   nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest
   adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the city's FIRM or at least
   two feet (2') if no depth number is specified or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
   be completely floodproofed to that level to meet the floodproofing standard specified in
   subsection 12-1-070B1 of this chapter.

3. Within zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be required around structures on slopes to
   guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.


  C. Enclosures: For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully enclosed areas below
      the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
      area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
      equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
      floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
      professional engineer or architect and must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

1. A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
   square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

2. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade.

3. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided that
   they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.


  D. Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with subsection 12-
      1-070A of this chapter.

1. All manufactured homes and those to be substantially improved shall conform to the following
   requirements:

  a. Manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be
  installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
  requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
  lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or
  frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and local anchoring
  requirements for resisting wind forces.

Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on a site outside of a manufactured
  home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an
  existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or
  subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood,
  shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
  elevated to or above the base flood elevation and shall be securely anchored to an adequately
  anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.

  b. Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE
  on the community's FIRM on sites (i) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a
  new manufactured home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
  park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
  manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a
  permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above
  the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
  resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

c. Manufactured homes placed or substantially improved on sites in existing manufactured home parks
   or subdivisions that are not subject to the provisions in subsection D1a of this section shall be
   elevated so that either:

(1) The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation; or
(2) The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements that
   are no less than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and is securely anchored to an
   adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.


  E. Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles shall either:

1. Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days;

2. Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or

3. Meet the permit requirements and elevation and anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.


  F. Standards for Subdivisions:

1. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions,
   shall be consistent with sections 12-1-010 and 12-1-020 of this chapter.

2. All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the placement of manufactured home
   parks and subdivisions, shall meet development permitLand Disturbance Permit requirements of this
   chapter and Title 18.

3. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
   development including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions greater than
   fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to subsection 12-
   1-040B, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", or 12-1-050B8 of this chapter.

4. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions,
   shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

5. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions,
   shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
   constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.


  G. Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within the areas of special flood hazard
      established in subsection 12-1-040B of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding.
      These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
      (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
      unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
      or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:

1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor,
   including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number
   specified in feet on the community's FIRM or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified.

2. All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures shall have the lowest
   floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth
   number specified in feet on the community's FIRM or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is
   specified or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
  flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water
  and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
  of effects of buoyancy.

3. A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the floodplain
   administrator that the requirements of this section are satisfied.

4. Within zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths shall be constructed around structures on slopes,
   to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. (Ord. 914, 9-22-2009)

  12-1-090: FLOODWAYS:

  Located within areas of special flood hazard established in subsection 12-1-040B of this chapter are
  areas designated as floodways. Since a floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
  of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
  apply:

  A. All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, and other
      development are prohibited unless it can be demonstrated by a registered professional engineer
      or architect through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard
      engineering practice that the proposed encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood
      levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.


  B. If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
       comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of sections 12-1-060 and 12-1-
       080 of this chapter.


  C. Under 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12 of the national flood insurance regulations, the city may
      permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in
      base flood elevation, provided the city first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision
      through FEMA. (Ord. 914, 9-22-2009)

  12-1-100: APPEAL:

  The applicant or any other interested person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal from
  or object to the decision of the floodplain administrator to the city council within thirty (30) days after
  the permit is granted or refused. The applicant or any other interested person shall have the right to
  a full hearing before the council on the question of whether or not the proposed building,
  improvement, dam or other structure or dumping will in any way impair, restrict, or obstruct the flow
  of the natural, storm or runoff waters that usually course down the natural waterway, stream or such
  ravine in question. Within thirty (30) days following conclusion of said hearing, the city council shall
  render a decision either confirming or reversing the decision of the floodplain administrator, or
  approving the same subject to specified conditions. (Ord. 914, 9-22-2009)

  12-1-1100: PENALTY:

  Any person, firm, or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating or
  causing or permitting the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
  misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine, or by imprisonment in the
  county jail, or by both as provided by law. Such person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed to be
guilty of a separate offense for each day during which any portion of any violation of this chapter is
committed, continued, or permitted by such person, firm, or corporation, and shall be punishable as
herein provided. (Ord. 914, 9-22-2009)
