NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, October 6, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
Determination 2020-08, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
·         Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
·         COVID-19 cases in Salt Lake County and Draper continue to increase at rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
·         It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
·         COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
·         The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder’s office.
To participate, please see the options below:
·         Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
·         Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
·         Those wishing to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, the day of the meeting. a 6:00 PM STUDY SESSION 1. Presentation: Ranked Choice Voting - Russ Fox a 2. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Proclamation: Declaring October 4-10, 2020, as Fire Prevention Week a 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of September 15, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes. b. Approval of September 22, 2020, City Council Retreat Meeting Minutes. c. Approval of Ordinance #1455, amending sections 7-4-130 and 15-1-050 of the Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to firearms and disturbance of wildlife Staff: Mike Barker d. Approval of Ordinance #1460, enacting a Temporary Land Use Regulation that suspends certain provisions of subsection 9-26-080(D) of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding temporary signage. Staff: Christina Oliver 5. Public Hearing: Ordinances #1458 and #1459, 123 XD Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by Keaton Morton, representing XDevelopment, to amend the land use map for the southern half of the subject property from Town Center to Neighborhood Commercial and to amend the zoning designation for the entire site from RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CC (Community Commercial).  The property is located at approximately 736 East 12300 South and 749-763 East Pioneer Road. Staff report by Maryann Pickering.
a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1457, Short Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request by Alex Short, to amend the zoning designation for the property from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural 20,000 square foot lot minimum). The property is approximately 1.5 acres in size and is located at approximately 1017 East 13200 South. Staff report by Todd Draper. a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1456, City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment (Legislative Action) On the request of Draper City for a text amendment to amend Section 9-27-090 Flag Lots of the Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment. Staff report by Todd Draper.  a 8. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held October 6, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: October 2, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.