Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 12, 2020
Re: Rockwell Point Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a zoning text amendment that would apply citywide to all properties with the Major Freeway Arterial Frontage Road (MARF) zoning designation.  This request is to modify the permitted uses in the zoning district.  The MARF zoning district was adopted by the City Council in August, 2019.  The applicant is proposing to change four uses from ‘not permitted’ to ‘permitted’.  Those four uses are: car wash, convenience store, gasoline service station, and restaurant.  No other changes are proposed to the zoning district.  All development standards will remain unchanged. The findings are as follows: For a positive recommendation:
1.         The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan;
2.         The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.         The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.         The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.         The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.         The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a negative recommendation:
1.         The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan;
2.         The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.         The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.         The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.         The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6.         The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/6/2020 Backup Material