Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis VanEkelenburg
CC:  Date: May 28, 2020
Re: Fairfield Inn & Suites Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 3.05 acres located on the south side of Bangerter Highway, at approximately 13690 S 100 E. The property is currently zoned CO2 (Professional Office) Zone.  The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a hotel.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1.   The site plan shall conform to applicable and approved standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
5.   That the requested deviations comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b) and meet the criteria for approval.
For denial:
1.  The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
5.  That the requested deviations do not comply with DCMC Section 9-22-030(b) and do not meet the criteria for approval. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 5/22/2020 Cover Memo