Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: July 21, 2020
Re: Holmes Homes Office – Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 2.38 acres located on the east side of 700 East, at approximately 11757 South. The property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential Agriculture, 40,000 square foot lot minimums) . The applicant is requesting that a Land Use Map Amendment be approved to change the designation from Community Commercial to the Neighborhood Commercial designation, and a rezone be approved from the RA1 zone to the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) zoning district in order to allow for the redevelopment of the property into an office development.
This item was heard by the Planning Commission at their June 11, 2020 meeting. At that meeting, the applicant had requested amendments on three properties equaling 3.57 acres in size. The applicant has since removed one of the properties from the proposal and is now seeking amendments for only 2.38 acres. Because the request was reduced in size, the application does not require additional Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote for both applications.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property;
5. There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The request complies with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property;
5. There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6. The request does not comply with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1442: Zoning Map Amendment 7/15/2020 Cover Memo Ord 1443: Land Use Map Amendment 7/15/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 7/15/2020 Cover Memo Resident Letters 7/15/2020 Cover Memo