NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a City Council Meeting on Tuesday, October 20, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE: This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040. Determination 2020-15, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4).
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
• Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
• Under Governor Herbert’s COVID-19 Transmission Index, Salt Lake and Utah Counties are classified as “high” level meaning both counties meets “high” level criteria in at least two of the three following criteria:  7-day average positivity rate, 14-day case rate per 100,000 people, and statewide ICU utilization.
•  It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with COVID-19 Transmission Index guidelines and Salt Lake and Utah County Public Health Orders.
•  COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
•  The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate, please see the options below:
·  Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
·  E mail comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 PM on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
·  Those wishing to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, the day of the meeting.
a STUDY SESSION 1. Report: Annual Sales Tax - Jared Zacharias a 2. Council/Manager Reports A. Cemetery options - Councilmember Green a 3. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205. a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS SESSION 1. Call to Order 2. Proclamation: Extra Mile Day a 3. Recognition: Draper City Extra Mile Heroes
Battalion Chief Kevin Holt
Shawna Borg, Natalie Watson, and Lisa Dixon, Draper residents and founders of The Local Bee, a service organization.
a 4. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 5. Consent Items a. Approval of Ordinance #1461, amending Draper City Municipal Code to provide alternate members to the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Board. b. Approval of Resolution #20-46, reappointing Doug Ovard as a member of the Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee c. Approval of Resolution #20-47, appointing members to the Diversity & Inclusion Advisory Board d. Approval of a Site Licensing Agreement with the Utah Hang Gliders/Paragliding Association for a weather station. Staff: Russ Fox e. Approval to surplus a city owned vehicle Staff: Bob Wylie 6. Action Item: Motion to Reconsider a Decision regarding Ordinance #1457, the Short Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment Rezone (Legislative Action) The applicant has requested that the City Council reconsider this matter in order to provide additional information that was not provided to the City Council prior to its decision on October 6.  Draper City Council Meeting Policies and Procedures allow the City Council to reconsider a prior decision.  If the request to reconsider the application is approved, all interested persons will be provided an opportunity to address the City Council at a future City Council meeting.  a 7. Public Hearing: Ordinances #1462 and #1463, Four Bears Estates Land Use Map Amendment and Zoning Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Todd Bradford, for a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density and a Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to R3 (Single-family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) on 0.96 acres of property located at 12758 South Boulter St.  Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 8. Action Item: Resolution #20-50 Draper City Fraud Risk Assessment.  Staff report by Bob Wylie. a 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held October 20, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: October 16, 2020 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.