NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper Planning Commission will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday, September 10, 2020, at 6:30 PM, in the 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in the Council Chambers.   The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting Electronic Meeting To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City website – http://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
E mail comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on the day of the meeting.
Written Determination 2020-09 WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2020-09
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
A. I, Andrew Adams, Chair of the Draper City Planning Commission, do hereby determine  conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor  location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the  anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct  electronic meetings without an anchor location.
B. The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have  all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases and related hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at  rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to  manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of  Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear,  or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
C. This written determination shall be included in the public notice of the Draper City  Planning Commission meetings and shall be read at the beginning of an electronic meeting held   without an anchor location.
D. The public notice of any meeting conducted pursuant to this written determination shall  include information on how members of the public may hear, or view and hear, or make a  comment at the meeting.
E. This written determination shall take effect immediately and will expire thirty (30) days  after the date written below or until revoked, whichever is earlier.
F. This written determination shall be filed promptly with the office of the city recorder.
DATED this 31st day of August, 2020. 6:30 PM    Business Meeting Agenda Items 1. Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 13, 2020 (Administrative Action) 2. Action Item: The Annex Plat Amendment Extension Request (Administrative Action) On the request of Clayton Morgan, for an extension of time to the approval for The Annex Plat Amendment located at 690 East 12200 South, application SUBD-733-2019. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.  3. Public Hearing: Silverlou Minor Subdivision (Administrative Action) On the request by Shauna Hatton-Ward for a deviation from required street improvements for approximately 1.77 acres located on the east side of Fort Street at 13455 South Fort Street.  The applicant is requesting a deviation from required street improvements, specifically curb, gutter and sidewalk on a private street.  Application SUBD-546-2019.  Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us. 4. Public Hearing: King and Laurel Aesthetic Corp Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit (Administrative Action) On the request of David and Daphne Garcia, for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit.The property is approximately 0.32 acres in size and is located at approximately 13313 S Laurel Park Lane. Application: USE-1038-2020. Staff Contact: Todd A. Draper (801) 576-6335 or todd.draper@draper.ut.us.  5. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.   Date Posted: September 4, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.