NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper City Council will hold a Business Meeting on Tuesday, May 5, 2020, at 6:00 PM,  in the City Council Chambers at 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah.   The Agenda will be as follows: Notice of Electronic Meeting: This meeting will be held electronically. This meeting will be an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As restrictions are in place across the State for limiting public gatherings, the interested public is invited to participate in a manner that they feel most comfortable.
Listen through our website -  https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email your comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 p.m. on the day of the meeting. These will become part of  the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom meeting ID to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 12 noon, May 5, 2020.
a 6:00 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Presentation: Secondary Water to Galena Park - Rhett Ogden a 2. Discussion: Tentative Budget - Bob Wylie a 3. Closed Session: By Motion The Draper City Council may temporarily recess the regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property, as provided by UCA 52-4-205.
a 4. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM    BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Action Item: Resolution #20-22, filling a mid-term vacancy and appointing a member to the Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control Board (Administrative) Candidates will be given 5 minutes each to present their qualifications to the City Council. Staff report by Russ Fox. a 3. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1431, Grading and Slope Text Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by the City of Draper for approval of a Text Amendment to various sections of Title 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code  to modify the regulations pertaining to grading, slopes, and retaining walls on properties. These changes would apply citywide. Staff report by Pete Kane. a 4. Action Item: Ordinance #1436, Big Willow Creek 2nd Amendment Development Agreement Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Bryon Prince, representing Ivory Development, LLC, for a development agreement on 20.9 acres of property located approximately at 491 West 11400 South. The amendment will authorize various deviations to the Draper City Municipal Code Title 9, Land Use and Development Standards, in regards to density allocation and minimum lot size. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 5. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held May 5, 2020 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News .   Date Posted: May 1, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.