Draft Minutes
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS


PRESENT:              Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Planning
                       Commissioners Kent Player, Mary Squire, Alternate Commissioners
                       DeLaina Tonks, Gary Ogden, and Lisa Fowler

ABSENT:               Planning Commissioners Traci Gundersen and John Van Hoff

STAFF PRESENT:        Mike Barker, Christina Oliver, Jennifer Jastremsky, Spencer DuShane and
                      Brien Maxfield, Jake Sorensen

ALSO PRESENT:         Roll on File




Business Meeting:
Chair Adams called the meeting to order 6:35PM.


1. Action Item: Nielsen’s Frozen Custard Development Agreement Request (Legislative
   Action)
    On the request of Steve Nielsen, representing Nielsen's Frozen Custard and Diner, for a
    Development Agreement modifying Title 9 design standards on 0.70 acres of property located
    at 1462 East Draper Parkway. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
    jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.


Senior Planner, Jennifer Jastremsky, gave a presentation. She stated the property was a part of the
American Estates Management Commercial Subdivision, East of 13th. She pointed out the building
used to be a bank. The zone was a CC commercial zone and allowed several uses. The applicant
was requesting a development agreement. The agreement allowed several changes to the code. The
applicant planned on using a diner theme they had for the rest of their locations. The concept site
plan allowed for shared parking spots in the shopping center to count towards the minimum amount
of parking spaces needed.

Also, they are requesting to not have the building entrance towards the street. In addition they are
requesting an exemption to the utility and screening standards. There would be no traffic study
required and they would be exempt from putting in a walkway, and they could construct landscape
that matched the current landscaping. She showed a picture of the site plan, showed where the
diner would be, where the drive thru was, the patio, parking, and new landscaping. The site
complied with the 20% landscape requirement. The Development Agreement would allow only
two colors (black and white) for the building rather than three. There would only be one primary
material, which would be tile. The awnings wouldn’t match the building. As far as signage, the
agreement would let signs go above the roofline, allow neon signs, and allow for additional signage
areas. They were requesting their monument sign to be 32 square feet in size and 6 feet four inches
tall. She showed pictures of these signs.

Commissioner Craig Hawker asked what the City got out of this Development Agreement.
Ms. Fowler replied the City would be guaranteed this was exactly how the building would look.
Commissioner Mary Squire asked if the neon signs would be turned off after closing time.
The applicant, Steve Nielsen stated he was the founder of Nielson’s Frozen Custard. He stated they
turned off the neon lights after closing time. They closed at 10 PM Monday through Thursday and
closed at 11 PM on Friday and Saturday. Their Attorney Joseph Barber was also in attendance.
Mr. Adams asked how many establishments they had. Mr. Adams asked how many locations
looked like the one they were going to build in Draper. He asked why they designed the locations
to look like the Draper location.
Mr. Steve Nielson replied they had 6 locations. This store would be a family operation. He
explained most of his employees had worked for them for many years. Their Bountiful and South
Jordan locations looked like the Draper plans. He explained many people liked taking pictures
with the building because of the diner look.
Ms. Squire asked if the Draper location would look the same as the South Jordan location.
Mr. Nielson replied the two locations would look the same.
Mr. Adams agreed with Mr. Hawker that the City did not gain a lot from the agreement.
Ms. Squire replied they gained a gathering place and a remodel of an old building.
Mr. Adams commented there were many deviations from the code and felt like everything was
against the code. He understood the branding and making the building fit the theme. He asked if
any of the deviations could be cut out without hurting his business.
Mr. Steve Nielson replied he did not know the consequences of cutting out some of the deviations.
Doug Nielson stated they were following landscaping codes and would make their business a great
gathering place.
Ms. Squire asked why they did not want to screen the utilities and generator.
Mr. Doug Nielson replied the generators were on the roof and were screened. They could not be
seen from the ground.
Mr. Steve Nielson stated this was not a remodel, but it was a total demolition. It was a 2.5-million-
dollar project. Almost all the landscaping would be new, but they were keeping the curb and the
grass.
Mr. Adams went through each deviation with the Planning Commission. He felt the shared parking
was reasonable. The orientation was reasonable for their brand. The generators were okay. The
exemption from the traffic study seemed okay to him.
Ms. Squire agreed shared parking, orientation, was reasonable. She asked what the qualifications
were to be exempt from the traffic study.
Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineer, talked about the traffic study. They guessed about how many
visitors they would receive and estimated the traffic density. They ruled it as being an insignificant
increase and so they did not need a traffic study.
Mr. Adams mentioned In and Out and how they had a problem with circulation. They were hoping
to not have that same problem.
Mr. Maxfield replied they focused mostly on street traffic and not the circulation in the parking
lot.
Ms. Jastremsky mentioned the space met City code on the circulation.
Mr. Adams continued to look through the list of deviations. He mentioned the sidewalk for
pedestrians. He was not too concerned about this. He asked if the landscaping would meet code.
Ms. Jastremsky was not sure if it would meet the code. The bank was old, and the standards might
not be the same.
Mr. Adams continued. He was not very concerned with the elevations. He then mentioned signage.
He was worried about the neon signs, as bulbs were not allowed without a cover. The neon signs
were a part of their brand. He asked if the monument sign was just backlit.
Mr. Hawker was fine with all the signage but was concerned with the neon signs.
Mike Nielsen commented from the audience but was completely inaudible.
Ms. Squire asked why neon was restricted. She wondered if they should restrict LED rather than
neon.
Ms. Jastremsky mentioned code did not allow exposed bulbs or neon lights. The City preferred
bulbs to have covers or for lighting to be backlit.
Mr. Adams asked the applicant what he thought about putting covers over the neon lights.
Mr. Steve Nielson replied adding covers would make the neon lights even brighter.
Mr. Adams felt everything in the signage was okay but felt the neon lights might be hard to allow.
For electrical, they would allow existing lighting to remain.
Commissioner Kent Player thought all the deviations fit with their brand. He liked what he saw.
Ms. Squire asked if the document was clear.
Mr. Barker replied the document was clear and had several drafts.
Motion: Commissioner Kent Player motioned to submit a positive recommendation to the
City Council for a Development Agreement modifying Title 9 design standards on 0.70 acres
of property located at 1462 Draper Parkway.
Second: Commissioner Lisa Fowler seconded the motion.
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting in favor of the motion. This item
did not pass with a 2 to 3 vote. Commissioners Player and Fowler voting “Aye” and
Commissioners Squire, Hawker and Tonks voting, “No”


Motion: Commissioner Mary Squire motioned to submit a negative recommendation to the
City Council for a Development Agreement modifying Title 9 design standards on 0.70 acres
of property located at 1462 Draper Parkway, based on the findings listed in the staff report.
Second: Vice Chairman Craig Hawker seconded the motion.
Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-2 in favor of the motion. This
item passed with a vote of 3 to 2. Commissioners Hawker, Tonks and Squire voted “Aye”
and Commissioners Player and Fowler voted, “No”.
The vote would be passed onto City Council.
Mr. Adams moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:24 PM.
