                                  RESOLUTION NO. 20-14

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING A LEASE AGREEMENT BETWEEN DRAPER
       CITY AND NEW CINGULAR WIRELESS PCS, LLC FOR AN EQUIPMENT
       SHELTER AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT NEW ANTENNAS
       INSTALLED ON THE EXISTING WATER TANK CELL TOWER LOCATED AT
       SUNCREST WATER TANK #3, DRAPER, UTAH.

        WHEREAS, the city has received a request from New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC to
lease 400 square feet of Draper City property for an equipment shelter and infrastructure to support
new antennas on the existing stealth cell tower due to a strong need for wireless facilities; and

       WHEREAS, there will be a significant improvement in the wireless service with the
addition of the wireless telecommunication facility; and

       WHEREAS, the Draper City Council previously entered into a lease agreement with
Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile for the water tank cell tower and telecommunication equipment on
city-owned property at the SunCrest water tank #3; and

       WHEREAS, the wireless telecommunication facility is of sufficient stealth design; and

       WHEREAS, the lease will provide for a continuous revenue stream; and

       WHEREAS, the Draper City Council has found the terms and conditions thereof of the
Lease Agreement (Exhibit “A”), acceptable to Draper City.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       1. It does hereby approve the attached Lease Agreement between Draper City and New
          Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC.
       2. The Honorable Troy K. Walker, Mayor of Draper City, is hereby authorized to execute
          the agreement on behalf of Draper City and to act in accordance with its terms.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THIS 18th DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2020.

ATTEST:                                             DRAPER CITY


_______________________________                     __________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder                       Troy K. Walker, Mayor




                                                1
VOTE TAKEN:                   YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker




                          2
        Exhibit A

“Verizon Lease Agreement”




           3
Market: Utah
Cell Site Number: UTL02011
Cell Site Name: Traverse Ridge (UT)
Fixed Asset Number: 12854507


                                      LAND LEASE AGREEMENT


        THIS LAND LEASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), dated as of the latter of the signature dates
below (the “Effective Date”), is entered into by Draper City, a municipal corporation, having a mailing
address of 1020 Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020 (“Landlord”), and New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, having a mailing address of 1025 Lenox Park Blvd. NE, 3rd Floor,
Atlanta, GA 30319 (“Tenant”).

                                              BACKGROUND

         Landlord owns that certain plot, parcel or tract of land, as described on Exhibit 1, together with all
rights and privileges arising in connection therewith, having a common street address of 14996 Traverse
Ridge Road, located in the City of Draper City, County of Salt Lake, State of Utah [APN: 11-010-0063]
(collectively, the “Property”). Tenant desires to use a portion of the Property in connection with its
federally licensed communications business to provide space for certain of Tenant’s equipment necessary or
advisable for the operation of its antennas and associated communications fixtures and equipment installed
or to be installed on a water tank antenna structure (“Water Tank”) owned by Verizon Wireless (VAW)
LLC, d/b/a Verizon Wireless (“Verizon Wireless”), which Water Tank is located on the Property. Landlord
desires to grant to Tenant the right to use a portion of the Property in accordance with this Agreement.

The parties agree as follows:

1.      LEASE OF PREMISES.
        Landlord hereby leases to Tenant (i) a certain portion of the Property containing approximately four
hundred (400) square feet including the air space above such ground space, as described on attached
Exhibit 1, together with (ii) the area as described and depicted on attached Exhibit 1 where the swing of
those certain access gates may encroach into the Property (collectively, the “Premises”), for the placement
of a Communication Facility (as defined in Section 2 below) in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and grants such easements as are necessary for installation of all equipment required or
advisable to connect Tenant’s antennas located on the Water Tank with the Communication Facility.

2.       PERMITTED USE. Tenant may use the Premises for the transmission and reception of
communications signals and the installation, construction, maintenance, operation, repair, replacement and
upgrade of communications fixtures and related equipment, cables, accessories and improvements, which
may include a an equipment shelter and concrete pad or other foundation, associated antennas, equipment
shelters or cabinets and fencing and any other items necessary to the successful and secure use of the
Premises (the “Communication Facility”), as well as the right to test, survey and review title on the
Property; Tenant further has the right but not the obligation to add, modify and/or replace equipment in
order to be in compliance with any current or future federal, state or local mandated application, including,
but not limited to, emergency 911 communication services, (collectively, the “Permitted Use”). Landlord
and Tenant agree that any portion of the Communication Facility that may be conceptually described on
Exhibit 1 will not be deemed to limit Tenant’s Permitted Use. If Exhibit 1 includes drawings of the initial
installation of the Communication Facility, Landlord’s execution of this Agreement will signify Landlord’s
approval of Exhibit 1. For a period of ninety (90) days following the start of construction, Landlord grants
Tenant, its subtenants, licensees and sublicensees, the right to use such portions of the Landlord’s
contiguous, adjoining or surrounding property (the “Surrounding Property”) as may reasonably be


                                                     4
required during construction and installation of the Communication Facility. Tenant has the right to install
and operate transmission cables from the equipment shelter or cabinet to the Water Tank, electric lines from
the main feed to the equipment shelter or cabinet and communication lines from the Property’s main entry
point to the equipment shelter or cabinet, install a generator and to make other improvements, alterations,
upgrades or additions appropriate for Tenant’s Permitted Use, including the right to construct a fence
around the Premises or equipment, install warning signs to make individuals aware of risks, install
protective barriers, install any other control measures reasonably required by Tenant’s safety procedures or
applicable law, and undertake any other appropriate means to secure the Premises or equipment at Tenant’s
expense. Tenant has the right to modify, supplement, replace, upgrade, expand the Communication Facility
or relocate the Communication Facility within the Premises at any time during the Term. Tenant will be
allowed to make such alterations to the Premises in order to ensure that the Communication Facility
complies with all applicable federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations. In the event Tenant desires to
modify or upgrade the Communication Facility, in a manner that requires an additional portion of the
Property (the “Additional Premises”) for such modification or upgrade, then to the extent that space is
available on the Property in Landlord’s reasonable determination, Landlord agrees to lease to Tenant the
Additional Premises, upon the same terms and conditions set forth herein, except that the Rent shall
increase, in conjunction with the lease of the Additional Premises by the amount equivalent to the then-
current per square foot rental rate charged by Landlord to Tenant times the square footage of the Additional
Premises. Landlord agrees to take such actions and enter into and deliver to Tenant such documents as
Tenant reasonably requests in order to effect and memorialize the lease of the Additional Premises to
Tenant.

3.       TERM.
         (a)     The initial lease term will be five (5) years (the “Initial Term”), commencing on the
Effective Date. The Initial Term will terminate on the fifth (5th) anniversary of the Effective Date.
         (b)     This Agreement will automatically renew for five (5) additional five (5) year term(s) (each
additional five (5) year term shall be defined as an “Extension Term”), upon the same terms and conditions
set forth herein unless Tenant notifies Landlord in writing of Tenant’s intention not to renew this
Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or the then-existing Extension
Term.
         (c)     Unless (i) Landlord or Tenant notifies the other in writing of its intention to terminate this
Agreement at least six (6) months prior to the expiration of the final Extension Term, or (ii) the Agreement
is terminated as otherwise permitted by this Agreement prior to the end of the final Extension Term, this
Agreement shall continue in force upon the same covenants, terms and conditions for a further term of one
(1) year, and for annual terms thereafter (“Annual Term”) until terminated by either party hereto by giving
to the other party hereto written notice of its intention to so terminate at least six (6) months prior to the end
of any such Annual Term. Monthly rent during such Annual Terms shall be equal to the Rent paid for the
last month of the final Extension Term. If Tenant remains in possession of the Premises after the
termination of this Agreement, then Tenant will be deemed to be occupying the Premises on a month-to-
month basis (the “Holdover Term”), subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
         (d)     The Initial Term, any Extension Terms, any Annual Terms and any Holdover Term are
collectively referred to as the “Term.”

4.       RENT.
         (a)     Commencing on the first day of the month following the date that Tenant commences
construction (the “Rent Commencement Date”), Tenant will pay Landlord on or before the fifth (5th) day
of each calendar month in advance, Eight Hundred and No/100 Dollars ($800.00) (the “Rent”), at the
address set forth above. In any partial month occurring after the Rent Commencement Date, the Rent will
be prorated. The initial Rent payment will be forwarded by Tenant to Landlord within forty-five (45) days
after the Rent Commencement Date.
         (b)     Upon each anniversary of the Rent Commencement Date during the Initial Term and each


                                                       5
Extension Term exercised, the monthly Rent will increase by three percent (3%) over the Rent paid during
the previous year.
        (c)     All charges payable under this Agreement such as utilities and taxes shall be billed by
Landlord within one (1) year from the end of the calendar year in which the charges were incurred; any
charges beyond such period shall not be billed by Landlord, and shall not be payable by Tenant. The
foregoing shall not apply to monthly Rent which is due and payable without a requirement that it be billed
by Landlord. The provisions of this subsection shall survive the termination or expiration of this
Agreement.

5.        APPROVALS.
          (a)     Landlord agrees that Tenant’s ability to use the Premises is contingent upon (i) the
suitability of the Premises and Property for the Permitted Use and (ii)Tenant’s ability to obtain and maintain
all governmental licenses, permits, approvals or other relief required of or deemed necessary or appropriate
by Tenant for its use of the Premises, including without limitation applications for zoning variances, zoning
ordinances, amendments, special use permits, and construction permits (collectively, the “Government
Approvals”). Landlord authorizes Tenant to prepare, execute and file all required applications to obtain
Government Approvals for the Permitted Use and agrees to reasonably assist Tenant with such applications
and with obtaining and maintaining the Government Approvals. In addition, Tenant shall have the right to
initiate the ordering and/or scheduling of necessary utilities.
          (b)     Tenant has the right to obtain a title report or commitment for a leasehold title policy from a
title insurance company of its choice and to have the Property surveyed by a surveyor of its choice.
          (c)     Tenant may also perform and obtain, at Tenant’s sole cost and expense, soil borings,
percolation tests, engineering procedures, environmental investigation or other tests or reports on, over, and
under the Property, necessary to determine if Tenant’s use of the Premises will be compatible with Tenant’s
engineering specifications, system, design, operations or Government Approvals.

6.      TERMINATION. This Agreement may be terminated, without penalty or further liability, as
follows:
        (a)      by either party on thirty (30) days prior written notice, if the other party remains in default
under Section 15 of this Agreement after the applicable cure periods;
        (b)      by Tenant upon written notice to Landlord, if Tenant is unable to obtain, or maintain, any
required approval(s) or the issuance of a license or permit by any agency, board, court or other
governmental authority necessary for the construction or operation of the Communication Facility as now or
hereafter intended by Tenant; or if Tenant determines, in its sole discretion that the cost of or delay in
obtaining or retaining the same is commercially unreasonable;
        (c)      by Tenant, upon written notice to Landlord, if Tenant determines, in its sole discretion, due
to the title report results or survey results, that the condition of the Premises is unsatisfactory for its
intended uses;
        (d)      by Tenant upon written notice to Landlord for any reason or no reason, at any time prior to
commencement of construction by Tenant; or
        (e)      by Tenant upon sixty (60) days’ prior written notice to Landlord for any reason or no
reason, so long as Tenant pays Landlord a termination fee equal to three (3) months’ Rent, at the then-
current rate, provided, however, that no such termination fee will be payable on account of the termination
of this Agreement by Tenant under any termination provision contained in any other Section of this
Agreement, including the following: Section 5 Approvals, Section 6(a) Termination, Section 6(b)
Termination, Section 6(c) Termination, Section 6(d) Termination, Section 11(d) Environmental, Section 18
Condemnation or Section 19 Casualty.

7.        INSURANCE. During the Term, Tenant will purchase and maintain in full force and effect such
commercial general liability policy as Tenant may deem necessary. Said policy of commercial general
liability insurance will provide a combined single limit of Two Million and No/100 Dollars ($2,000,000.00)


                                                      6
per occurrence and in the aggregate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have the right to self-
insure such general liability coverage.

8.       INTERFERENCE.
         (a)     Prior to or concurrent with the execution of this Agreement, Landlord has provided or will
provide Tenant with a list of radio frequency user(s) and frequencies used on the Property as of the
Effective Date. Tenant warrants that its use of the Premises will not interfere with those existing radio
frequency uses on the Property, as long as the existing radio frequency user(s) operate and continue to
operate within their respective frequencies and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
         (b)     Landlord will not grant, after the Effective Date, a lease, license or any other right to any
third party, if the exercise of such grant may in any way adversely affect or interfere with the
Communication Facility, the operations of Tenant or the rights of Tenant under this Agreement. Landlord
will notify Tenant in writing prior to granting any third party the right to install and operate
communications equipment on the Property.
         (c)     Landlord will not, nor will Landlord permit its employees, tenants, licensees, invitees,
agents or independent contractors to interfere in any way with the Communication Facility, the operations
of Tenant or the rights of Tenant under this Agreement. Landlord will cause such interference to cease
within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of notice of interference from Tenant. In the event any such
interference does not cease within the aforementioned cure period, Landlord shall cease all operations
which are suspected of causing interference (except for intermittent testing to determine the cause of such
interference) until the interference has been corrected.
         (d)     For the purposes of this Agreement, “interference” may include, but is not limited to, any
use on the Property or Surrounding Property that causes electronic or physical obstruction with, or
degradation of, the communications signals from the Communication Facility.

9.       INDEMNIFICATION.
         (a)      Tenant agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Landlord harmless from and against any and
all injury, loss, damage or liability, costs or expenses in connection with a third party claim (including
reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs) arising directly from the installation, use, maintenance, repair or
removal of the Communication Facility or Tenant’s breach of any provision of this Agreement, except to
the extent attributable to the negligent or intentional act or omission of Landlord, its employees, invitees,
agents or independent contractors.
         (b)      Landlord agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Tenant harmless from and against any and
all injury, loss, damage or liability, costs or expenses in connection with a third party claim (including
reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs) arising directly from the actions or failure to act of Landlord, its
employees, invitees, agents or independent contractors, or Landlord’s breach of any provision of this
Agreement, except to the extent attributable to the negligent or intentional act or omission of Tenant, its
employees, agents or independent contractors.
         (c)      The indemnified party: (i) shall promptly provide the indemnifying party with written
notice of any claim, demand, lawsuit, or the like for which it seeks indemnification pursuant to this Section
9 and provide the indemnifying party with copies of any demands, notices, summonses, or legal papers
received in connection with such claim, demand, lawsuit, or the like; (ii) shall not settle any such claim,
demand, lawsuit, or the like without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party; and (iii) shall fully
cooperate with the indemnifying party in the defense of the claim, demand, lawsuit, or the like. A delay in
notice shall not relieve the indemnifying party of its indemnity obligation, except (1) to the extent the
indemnifying party can show it was prejudiced by the delay; and (2) the indemnifying party shall not be
liable for any settlement or litigation expenses incurred before the time when notice is given.

10.     WARRANTIES.
        (a)      Each of Tenant and Landlord (to the extent not a natural person) each acknowledge and
represent that it is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing and has the right, power, and


                                                      7
authority or capacity, as applicable, to enter into this Agreement and bind itself hereto through the party or
individual set forth as signatory for the party below.
         (b)     Landlord represents, warrants and agrees that: (i) Landlord solely owns the Property as a
legal lot in fee simple; (ii) the Property is not and will not be encumbered by any liens, restrictions,
mortgages, covenants, conditions, easements, leases, or any other agreements of record or not of record,
which would adversely affect Tenant’s Permitted Use and enjoyment of the Premises under this Agreement;
(iii) Landlord grants to Tenant sole, actual, quiet and peaceful use, enjoyment and possession of the
Premises in accordance with the terms of this Agreement without hindrance or ejection by any persons
lawfully claiming under Landlord; (iv) Landlord’s execution and performance of this Agreement will not
violate any laws, ordinances, covenants or the provisions of any mortgage, lease or other agreement binding
on Landlord; and (v) if the Property is or becomes encumbered by a deed to secure a debt, mortgage or
other security interest, then Landlord will provide promptly to Tenant a mutually agreeable subordination,
non-disturbance and attornment agreement executed by Landlord and the holder of such security interest.

11.      ENVIRONMENTAL.
         (a)     Landlord represents and warrants, except as may be identified in Exhibit 11 attached to this
Agreement, (i) the Property, as of the Effective Date, is free of hazardous substances, including asbestos-
containing materials and lead paint, and (ii) the Property has never been subject to any contamination or
hazardous conditions resulting in any environmental investigation, inquiry or remediation. Landlord and
Tenant agree that each will be responsible for compliance with any and all applicable governmental laws,
rules, statutes, regulations, codes, ordinances, or principles of common law regulating or imposing
standards of liability or standards of conduct with regard to protection of the environment or worker health
and safety, as may now or at any time hereafter be in effect, to the extent such apply to that party’s activity
conducted in or on the Property.
         (b)     Landlord and Tenant agree to hold harmless and indemnify the other from, and to assume
all duties, responsibilities and liabilities at the sole cost and expense of the indemnifying party for, payment
of penalties, sanctions, forfeitures, losses, costs or damages, and for responding to any action, notice, claim,
order, summons, citation, directive, litigation, investigation or proceeding (“Claims”), to the extent arising
from that party’s breach of its obligations or representations under Section 11(a). Landlord agrees to hold
harmless and indemnify Tenant from, and to assume all duties, responsibilities and liabilities at the sole cost
and expense of Landlord for, payment of penalties, sanctions, forfeitures, losses, costs or damages, and for
responding to any Claims, to the extent arising from subsurface or other contamination of the Property with
hazardous substances prior to the Effective Date or from such contamination caused by the acts or
omissions of Landlord during the Term. Tenant agrees to hold harmless and indemnify Landlord from, and
to assume all duties, responsibilities and liabilities at the sole cost and expense of Tenant for, payment of
penalties, sanctions, forfeitures, losses, costs or damages, and for responding to any Claims, to the extent
arising from hazardous substances brought onto the Property by Tenant.
         (c)     The indemnification provisions contained in this Section 11 specifically include reasonable
costs, expenses and fees incurred in connection with any investigation of Property conditions or any clean-
up, remediation, removal or restoration work required by any governmental authority. The provisions of
this Section 11 will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.




                                                      8
         (d)     In the event Tenant becomes aware of any hazardous materials on the Property, or any
environmental, health or safety condition or matter relating to the Property, that, in Tenant’s sole
determination, renders the condition of the Premises or Property unsuitable for Tenant’s use, or if Tenant
believes that the leasing or continued leasing of the Premises would expose Tenant to undue risks of
liability to a government agency or other third party, then Tenant will have the right, in addition to any
other rights it may have at law or in equity, to terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Landlord.

12.      ACCESS. At all times throughout the Term of this Agreement, and at no additional charge to
Tenant, Tenant and its employees, agents, and subcontractors, will have twenty-four (24) hour per day,
seven (7) day per week pedestrian and vehicular access (“Access”) to and over the Property, from an open
and improved public road to the Premises, for the installation, maintenance and operation of the
Communication Facility and any utilities serving the Premises. As may be described more fully in Exhibit
1, Landlord grants to Tenant an easement for such Access and Landlord agrees to provide to Tenant such
codes, keys and other instruments necessary for such Access at no additional cost to Tenant. Upon Tenant’s
request, Landlord will execute a separate recordable easement evidencing this right. Landlord shall execute
a letter granting Tenant Access to the Property substantially in the form attached as Exhibit 12; upon
Tenant’s request, Landlord shall execute additional letters during the Term. If Tenant elects to utilize an
Unmanned Aircraft System (“UAS”) in connection with its installation, construction, monitoring, site
audits, inspections, maintenance, repair, modification, or alteration activities at the Property, Landlord
hereby grants Tenant, or any UAS operator acting on Tenant’s behalf, express permission to fly over the
applicable Property and Premises, and consents to the use of audio and video navigation and recording in
connection with the use of the UAS. Landlord acknowledges that in the event Tenant cannot obtain Access
to the Premises, Tenant shall incur significant damage. If Landlord fails to provide the Access granted by
this Section 12, then to the extent such failure to provide Access is within Landlord’s reasonable control,
such failure shall be a default under this Agreement. In connection with such default, in addition to any
other rights or remedies available to Tenant under this Agreement or at law or equity, Landlord shall pay
Tenant, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, $500 per day in consideration of Tenant’s damages until
Landlord cures such default. Landlord and Tenant agree that Tenant’s damages in the event of a denial of
Access are difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain, and the liquidated damages set forth above are a
reasonable approximation of such damages.

13.     REMOVAL/RESTORATION. All portions of the Communication Facility brought onto the
Property by Tenant will be and remain Tenant’s personal property and, at Tenant’s option, may be removed
by Tenant at any time during or after the Term. Landlord covenants and agrees that no part of the
Communication Facility constructed, erected or placed on the Premises by Tenant will become, or be
considered as being affixed to or a part of, the Property, it being the specific intention of Landlord that all
improvements of every kind and nature constructed, erected or placed by Tenant on the Premises will be
and remain the property of Tenant and may be removed by Tenant at any time during or after the Term.
Tenant will repair any damage to the Property resulting from Tenant’s removal activities. Any portions of
the Communication Facility that Tenant does not remove within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
later of the end of the Term and cessation of Tenant’s operations at the Premises shall be deemed
abandoned and owned by Landlord. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant will not be responsible for the
replacement of any trees, shrubs or other vegetation.

14.     MAINTENANCE/UTILITIES.
        (a)     Tenant will keep and maintain the Premises in good condition, reasonable wear and tear
and damage from the elements excepted. Landlord will maintain and repair the Property and access thereto
and all areas of the Premises where Tenant does not have exclusive control, in good and tenantable
condition, subject to reasonable wear and tear and damage from the elements. Landlord will be responsible
for maintenance of landscaping on the Property, including any landscaping installed by Tenant as a


                                                     9
condition of this Agreement or any required permit.
          (b)     Tenant will be responsible for paying on a monthly or quarterly basis all utilities charges
for electricity, telephone service or any other utility used or consumed by Tenant on the Premises. In the
event Tenant cannot secure its own metered electrical supply, Tenant will have the right, at its own cost and
expense, to sub-meter from Landlord. When sub-metering is required under this Agreement, Landlord will
read the meter and provide Tenant with an invoice and usage data on a monthly basis. Tenant shall
reimburse Landlord for such utility usage at the same rate charged to Landlord by the utility service
provider. Landlord further agrees to provide the usage data and invoice on forms provided by Tenant and
to send such forms to such address and/or agent designated by Tenant. Tenant will remit payment within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the usage data and required forms. Landlord shall maintain accurate and
detailed records of all utility expenses, invoices and payments applicable to Tenant’s reimbursement
obligations hereunder. Within fifteen (15) days after a request from Tenant, Landlord shall provide copies
of such utility billing records to the Tenant in the form of copies of invoices, contracts and cancelled
checks. If the utility billing records reflect an overpayment by Tenant, Tenant shall have the right to deduct
the amount of such overpayment from any monies due to Landlord from Tenant.
          (c)     As noted in Section 4(c) above, any utility fee recovery by Landlord is limited to a twelve
(12) month period. If Tenant submeters electricity from Landlord, Landlord agrees to give Tenant at least
twenty-four (24) hours advance notice of any planned interruptions of said electricity. Landlord
acknowledges that Tenant provides a communication service which requires electrical power to operate and
must operate twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week. If the interruption is for an extended
period of time, in Tenant’s reasonable determination, Landlord agrees to allow Tenant the right to bring in a
temporary source of power for the duration of the interruption. Landlord will not be responsible for
interference with, interruption of or failure, beyond the reasonable control of Landlord, of such services to
be furnished or supplied by Landlord.
          (d)     Tenant will have the right to install utilities, at Tenant’s expense, and to improve present
utilities on the Property and the Premises. Landlord hereby grants to any service company providing utility
or similar services, including electric power and telecommunications, to Tenant an easement over the
Property, from an open and improved public road to the Premises, and upon the Premises, for the purpose of
constructing, operating and maintaining such lines, wires, circuits, and conduits, associated equipment
cabinets and such appurtenances thereto, as such service companies may from time to time require in order
to provide such services to the Premises. Upon Tenant’s or service company’s request, Landlord will
execute a separate recordable easement evidencing this grant, at no cost to Tenant or the service company.

15.      DEFAULT AND RIGHT TO CURE.
         (a)     The following will be deemed a default by Tenant and a breach of this Agreement: (i) non-
payment of Rent if such Rent remains unpaid for more than thirty (30) days after written notice from
Landlord of such failure to pay; or (ii) Tenant’s failure to perform any other term or condition under this
Agreement within forty-five (45) days after written notice from Landlord specifying the failure. No such
failure, however, will be deemed to exist if Tenant has commenced to cure such default within such period
and provided that such efforts are prosecuted to completion with reasonable diligence. Delay in curing a
default will be excused if due to causes beyond the reasonable control of Tenant. If Tenant remains in
default beyond any applicable cure period, then Landlord will have the right to exercise any and all rights
and remedies available to it under law and equity.
         (b)     The following will be deemed a default by Landlord and a breach of this Agreement: (i) to
the extent within Landlord’s reasonable control, Landlord’s failure to provide Access to the Premises as
required by Section 12 within twenty-four (24) hours after written notice of such failure; (ii) Landlord’s
failure to cure an interference problem as required by Section 8 within twenty-four (24) hours after written
notice of such failure; or (iii) Landlord’s failure to perform any term, condition or breach of any warranty or
covenant under this Agreement within forty-five (45) days after written notice from Tenant specifying the
failure. No such failure, however, will be deemed to exist if Landlord has commenced to cure the default
within such period and provided such efforts are prosecuted to completion with reasonable diligence. Delay


                                                     10
in curing a default will be excused if due to causes beyond the reasonable control of Landlord. If Landlord
remains in default beyond any applicable cure period, Tenant will have: (1) the right to cure Landlord’s
default and to deduct the costs of such cure from any monies due to Landlord from Tenant, and (2) any and
all other rights available to it under law and equity.

16.    ASSIGNMENT/SUBLEASE. Tenant will have the right to assign this Agreement or sublease the
Premises and its rights herein, in whole or in part, without Landlord’s consent, but upon prior written notice
to Landlord. Upon notification to Landlord of such assignment, Tenant will be relieved of all future
performance, liabilities and obligations under this Agreement to the extent of such assignment.

17.      NOTICES. All notices, requests and demands hereunder will be given by first class certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, or by a nationally recognized overnight courier, postage prepaid, to
be effective when properly sent and received, refused or returned undelivered. Notices will be addressed to
the parties hereto as follows:

If to Tenant:            New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC
                         Attn: Tower Asset Group – Lease Administration
                         Re: Cell Site #: UTL02011
                         Cell Site Name: Traverse Ridge (UT)
                         Fixed Asset #: 12854507
                         1025 Lenox Park Blvd. NE, 3rd Floor
                         Atlanta, GA 30319

With a copy to:          New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC
                         Attn: Legal Dept – Network Operations
                         Re: Cell Site #: UTL02011
                         Cell Site Name: Traverse Ridge (UT)
                         Fixed Asset #: 12854507
                         208 S. Akard Street
                         Dallas, TX 75202-4206

The copy sent to the Legal Department is an administrative step which alone does not constitute legal
notice.

If to Landlord:          Draper City
                         Attn: City Manager
                         1020 Pioneer Road
                         Draper, UT 84020

Either party hereto may change the place for the giving of notice to it by thirty (30) days’ prior written
notice to the other party hereto as provided herein.

18.      CONDEMNATION. In the event Landlord receives notification of any condemnation proceedings
affecting the Property, Landlord will provide notice of the proceeding to Tenant within twenty-four (24)
hours. If a condemning authority takes all of the Property, or a portion sufficient, in Tenant’s sole
determination, to render the Premises unsuitable for Tenant, this Agreement will terminate as of the date the
title vests in the condemning authority. The parties will each be entitled to pursue their own separate
awards in the condemnation proceeds, which for Tenant will include, where applicable, the value of its
Communication Facility, moving expenses, prepaid Rent, and business dislocation expenses. Tenant will be
entitled to reimbursement for any prepaid Rent on a pro rata basis.



                                                     11
19.      CASUALTY. Landlord will provide notice to Tenant of any casualty or other harm affecting the
Property within twenty-four (24) hours of the casualty or other harm. If any part of the Communication
Facility or the Property is damaged by casualty or other harm as to render the Premises unsuitable, in
Tenant’s sole determination, then Tenant may terminate this Agreement by providing written notice to
Landlord, which termination will be effective as of the date of such casualty or other harm. Upon such
termination, Tenant will be entitled to collect all insurance proceeds payable to Tenant on account thereof
and to be reimbursed for any prepaid Rent on a pro rata basis. Landlord agrees to permit Tenant to place
temporary transmission and reception facilities on the Property, but only until such time as Tenant is able to
activate a replacement transmission facility at another location; notwithstanding the termination of this
Agreement, such temporary facilities will be governed by all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
including Rent. If Landlord or Tenant undertakes to rebuild or restore the Premises and/or the
Communication Facility, as applicable, Landlord agrees to permit Tenant to place temporary transmission
and reception facilities on the Property at no additional cost or fees to Tenant until the reconstruction of the
Premises and/or the Communication Facility is completed. If Landlord determines not to rebuild or restore
the Property, Landlord will notify Tenant of such determination within thirty (30) days after the casualty or
other harm. If Landlord does not so notify Tenant and Tenant decides not to terminate under this Section
19, then Landlord will promptly rebuild or restore any portion of the Property interfering with or required
for Tenant’s Permitted Use of the Premises to substantially the same condition as existed before the casualty
or other harm. Landlord agrees that the Rent shall be abated until the Property and/or the Premises are
rebuilt or restored, unless Tenant places temporary transmission and reception facilities on the Property.

20.      WAIVER OF LANDLORD’S LIENS. Landlord waives any and all lien rights it may have,
statutory or otherwise, concerning the Communication Facility or any portion thereof. The Communication
Facility shall be deemed personal property for purposes of this Agreement, regardless of whether any
portion is deemed real or personal property under applicable law; Landlord consents to Tenant’s right to
remove all or any portion of the Communication Facility from time to time in Tenant’s sole discretion and
without Landlord’s consent.

21.      TAXES.
         (a)      Landlord shall be responsible for (i) all taxes and assessments levied upon the lands,
improvements and other property of Landlord including any such taxes that may be calculated by a taxing
authority using any method, including the income method, (ii) all sales, use, license, value added,
documentary, stamp, gross receipts, registration, real estate transfer, conveyance, excise, recording, and
other similar taxes and fees imposed in connection with this Agreement, and (iii) all sales, use, license,
value added, documentary, stamp, gross receipts, registration, real estate transfer, conveyance, excise,
recording, and other similar taxes and fees imposed in connection with a sale of the Property or assignment
of Rent payments by Landlord. Tenant shall be responsible for (y) any taxes and assessments attributable to
and levied upon Tenant’s leasehold improvements on the Premises if and as set forth in this Section 21 and
(z) all sales, use, license, value added, documentary, stamp, gross receipts, registration, real estate transfer,
conveyance, excise, recording, and other similar taxes and fees imposed in connection with an assignment
of this Agreement or sublease by Tenant. Nothing herein shall require Tenant to pay any inheritance,
franchise, income, payroll, excise, privilege, rent, capital stock, stamp, documentary, estate or profit tax, or
any tax of similar nature, that is or may be imposed upon Landlord.
         (b)      In the event Landlord receives a notice of assessment with respect to which taxes or
assessments are imposed on Tenant’s leasehold improvements on the Premises, Landlord shall provide
Tenant with copies of each such notice immediately upon receipt, but in no event later than thirty (30) days
after the date of such notice of assessment. If Landlord does not provide such notice or notices to Tenant in
a timely manner and Tenant’s rights with respect to such taxes are prejudiced by the delay, Landlord shall
reimburse Tenant for any increased costs directly resulting from the delay and Landlord shall be responsible
for payment of the tax or assessment set forth in the notice, and Landlord shall not have the right to
reimbursement of such amount from Tenant. If Landlord provides a notice of assessment to Tenant within


                                                      12
such time period and requests reimbursement from Tenant as set forth below, then Tenant shall reimburse
Landlord for the tax or assessments identified on the notice of assessment on Tenant’s leasehold
improvements, which has been paid by Landlord. If Landlord seeks reimbursement from Tenant, Landlord
shall, no later than thirty (30) days after Landlord’s payment of the taxes or assessments for the assessed tax
year, provide Tenant with written notice including evidence that Landlord has timely paid same, and
Landlord shall provide to Tenant any other documentation reasonably requested by Tenant to allow Tenant
to evaluate the payment and to reimburse Landlord.
         (c)      For any tax amount for which Tenant is responsible under this Agreement, Tenant shall
have the right to contest, in good faith, the validity or the amount thereof using such administrative,
appellate or other proceedings as may be appropriate in the jurisdiction, and may defer payment of such
obligations, pay same under protest, or take such other steps as permitted by law. This right shall include
the ability to institute any legal, regulatory or informal action in the name of Landlord, Tenant, or both, with
respect to the valuation of the Premises. Landlord shall cooperate with respect to the commencement and
prosecution of any such proceedings and will execute any documents required therefor. The expense of any
such proceedings shall be borne by Tenant and any refunds or rebates secured as a result of Tenant’s action
shall belong to Tenant, to the extent the amounts were originally paid by Tenant. In the event Tenant
notifies Landlord by the due date for assessment of Tenant’s intent to contest the assessment, Landlord shall
not pay the assessment pending conclusion of the contest, unless required by applicable law.
         (d)      Landlord shall not split or cause the tax parcel on which the Premises are located to be split,
bifurcated, separated or divided without the prior written consent of Tenant.
         (e)      Tenant shall have the right but not the obligation to pay any taxes due by Landlord
hereunder if Landlord fails to timely do so, in addition to any other rights or remedies of Tenant. In the
event that Tenant exercises its rights under this Section 21(e) due to such Landlord default, Tenant shall
have the right to deduct such tax amounts paid from any monies due to Landlord from Tenant as provided
in Section 15(b), provided that Tenant may exercise such right without having provided to Landlord notice
and the opportunity to cure per Section 15(b).
         (f)      Any tax-related notices shall be sent to Tenant in the manner set forth in Section 17.
Promptly after the Effective Date, Landlord shall provide the following address to the taxing authority for
the authority’s use in the event the authority needs to communicate with Tenant. In the event that Tenant’s
tax address changes by notice to Landlord, Landlord shall be required to provide Tenant’s new tax address
to the taxing authority or authorities.

New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC
Attn: Tower Asset Group – Taxes
Re: Cell Site #: UTL02011
Cell Site Name: Traverse Ridge (UT)
Fixed Asset #: 12854507
1025 Lenox Park Blvd. NE, 3rd Floor
Atlanta, GA 30319

        (g)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 21, Tenant shall have no
obligation to reimburse any tax or assessment for which the Landlord is reimbursed or rebated by a third
party.

22.    SALE OF PROPERTY.
       (a)      Landlord may sell the Property or a portion thereof to a third party, provided: (i) the sale is
made subject to the terms of this Agreement; and (ii) if the sale does not include the assignment of
Landlord’s full interest in this Agreement, the purchaser must agree to perform, without requiring
compensation from Tenant or any subtenant, any obligation of Landlord under this Agreement, including
Landlord’s obligation to cooperate with Tenant as provided hereunder.
       (b)      If Landlord, at any time during the Term of this Agreement, decides to rezone or sell,


                                                      13
subdivide or otherwise transfer all or any part of the Premises, or all or any part of the Property or the
Surrounding Property, to a purchaser other than Tenant, Landlord shall promptly notify Tenant in writing,
and such rezoning, sale, subdivision or transfer shall be subject to this Agreement and Tenant’s rights
hereunder. In the event of a change in ownership, transfer or sale of the Property, within ten (10) days of
such transfer, Landlord or its successor shall send the documents listed below in this Section 2222(b) to
Tenant. Until Tenant receives all such documents, Tenant’s failure to make payments under this Agreement
shall not be an event of default and Tenant reserves the right to hold payments due under this Agreement.

                i.       Old deed to Property
                ii.      New deed to Property
                iii.     Bill of Sale or Transfer
                iv.      Copy of current Tax Bill
                v.       New IRS Form W-9 & applicable Utah State Tax Commission tax form, if any
                vi.      Completed and Signed Tenant Payment Direction Form
                vii.     Full contact information for new Landlord including phone number(s)

         (c)    Landlord agrees not to sell, lease or use any areas of the Property or the Surrounding
Property for the installation, operation or maintenance of other wireless communication facilities if such
installation, operation or maintenance would cause interference with Tenant’s Permitted Use or
communications equipment as determined by radio propagation tests performed by Tenant in its sole
discretion. Landlord or Landlord’s prospective purchaser shall reimburse Tenant for any costs and
expenses of such testing. If the radio frequency propagation tests demonstrate levels of interference
unacceptable to Tenant, Landlord shall be prohibited from selling, leasing or using any areas of the Property
or the Surrounding Property for purposes of any installation, operation or maintenance of any other wireless
communication facility or equipment.
         (d)    The provisions of this Section 22 shall in no way limit or impair the obligations of Landlord
under this Agreement, including interference and access obligations.

23.      RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL. Notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 22, but
subject to Verizon Wireless’ right of first refusal and rights upon sale set forth in Sections 16 and 17,
respectively, of that certain Option and Land Lease Agreement dated January 17, 2012, as amended by that
certain First Amendment to Option and Land Lease Agreement dated August 14, 2012 between Verizon
Wireless and Landlord, if at any time after the Effective Date, Landlord receives a bona fide written offer
from a third party seeking any sale, conveyance, assignment or transfer, whether in whole or in part, of any
property interest in or related to the Premises, including without limitation any offer seeking an assignment
or transfer of the Rent payments associated with this Agreement or an offer to purchase an easement with
respect to the Premises (“Offer”), Landlord shall immediately furnish Tenant with a copy of the Offer.
Tenant shall have the right within ninety (90) days after it receives such copy to match the financial terms
of the Offer and agree in writing to match such terms of the Offer. Such writing shall be in the form of a
contract substantially similar to the Offer but Tenant may assign its rights to a third party. If Tenant
chooses not to exercise this right or fails to provide written notice to Landlord within the ninety (90) day
period, Landlord may sell, convey, assign or transfer such property interest in or related to the Premises
pursuant to the Offer, subject to the terms of this Agreement. If Landlord attempts to sell, convey, assign or
transfer such property interest in or related to the Premises without complying with this Section 23, the sale,
conveyance, assignment or transfer shall be void. Tenant shall not be responsible for any failure to make
payments under this Agreement and reserves the right to hold payments due under this Agreement until
Landlord complies with this Section 23. Tenant’s failure to exercise the right of first refusal shall not be
deemed a waiver of the rights contained in this Section 23 with respect to any future proposed conveyances
as described herein.

24.     MISCELLANEOUS.


                                                     14
         (a)      Amendment/Waiver. This Agreement cannot be amended, modified or revised unless
done in writing and signed by Landlord and Tenant. No provision may be waived except in a writing signed
by both parties. The failure by a party to enforce any provision of this Agreement or to require performance
by the other party will not be construed to be a waiver, or in any way affect the right of either party to
enforce such provision thereafter.
         (b)      Memorandum of Lease. Contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, the
parties will execute a recordable Memorandum of Lease substantially in the form attached as Exhibit 24(b).
Either party may record this Memorandum of Lease at any time during the Term, in its absolute discretion.
Thereafter during the Term, either party will, at any time upon fifteen (15) business days’ prior written
notice from the other, execute, acknowledge and deliver to the other a recordable Memorandum of Lease.
         (c)      Limitation of Liability. Except for the indemnity obligations set forth in this Agreement,
and otherwise notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Tenant and Landlord each
waives any claims that each may have against the other with respect to consequential, incidental or special
damages, however caused, based on any theory of liability.
         (d)      Compliance with Law. Tenant agrees to comply with all federal, state and local laws,
orders, rules and regulations (“Laws”) applicable to Tenant’s use of the Communication Facility on the
Property. Landlord agrees to comply with all Laws relating to Landlord’s ownership and use of the Property
and any improvements on the Property.
         (e)      Bind and Benefit. The terms and conditions contained in this Agreement will run with the
Property and bind and inure to the benefit of the parties, their respective heirs, executors, administrators,
successors and assigns.
         (f)      Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto, all being a part
hereof, constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto and will supersede all prior offers, negotiations
and agreements with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. Exhibits are numbered to correspond
to the Section wherein they are first referenced. Except as otherwise stated in this Agreement, each party
shall bear its own fees and expenses (including the fees and expenses of its agents, brokers, representatives,
attorneys, and accountants) incurred in connection with the negotiation, drafting, execution and
performance of this Agreement and the transactions it contemplates.
         (g)      Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the state in which the
Premises are located, without regard to conflicts of law.
         (h)      Interpretation. Unless otherwise specified, the following rules of construction and
interpretation apply: (i) captions are for convenience and reference only and in no way define or limit the
construction of the terms and conditions hereof; (ii) use of the term “including” will be interpreted to mean
“including but not limited to”; (iii) whenever a party’s consent is required under this Agreement, except as
otherwise stated in the Agreement or as same may be duplicative, such consent will not be unreasonably
withheld, conditioned or delayed; (iv) exhibits are an integral part of this Agreement and are incorporated
by reference into this Agreement; (v) use of the terms “termination” or “expiration” are interchangeable;
(vi) reference to a default will take into consideration any applicable notice, grace and cure periods; (vii) to
the extent there is any issue with respect to any alleged, perceived or actual ambiguity in this Agreement,
the ambiguity shall not be resolved on the basis of who drafted the Agreement; (viii) the singular use of
words includes the plural where appropriate; and (ix) if any provision of this Agreement is held invalid,
illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force if the overall
purpose of the Agreement is not rendered impossible and the original purpose, intent or consideration is not
materially impaired.
         (i)      Affiliates. All references to “Tenant” shall be deemed to include any Affiliate of New
Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC using the Premises for any Permitted Use or otherwise exercising the rights of
Tenant pursuant to this Agreement. “Affiliate” means with respect to a party to this Agreement, any person
or entity that (directly or indirectly) Controls, is Controlled by, or under common Control with, that party.
“Control” of a person or entity means the power (directly or indirectly) to direct the management or policies
of that person or entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, by agency or
otherwise.


                                                     15
         (j)     Survival. Any provisions of this Agreement relating to indemnification shall survive the
termination or expiration hereof. In addition, any terms and conditions contained in this Agreement that by
their sense and context are intended to survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement shall so
survive.
         (k)     Standard Payment Direction Form/W-9/State Tax Forms. As a condition precedent to
payment, Landlord agrees to provide Tenant with a properly completed (i) Standard Payment Direction
Form of Tenant; and (ii) IRS Form W-9 and applicable Utah State Tax Commission tax form, if any, or
their respective tax form equivalents, upon execution of this Agreement and at such other times as may be
reasonably requested by Tenant, including any change in Landlord’s name or address.
         (l)     Execution/No Option. The submission of this Agreement to any party for examination or
consideration does not constitute an offer, reservation of or option for the Premises based on the terms set
forth herein. This Agreement will become effective as a binding Agreement only upon the handwritten
legal execution, acknowledgment and delivery hereof by Landlord and Tenant. This Agreement may be
executed in two (2) or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and
shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties. All parties
need not sign the same counterpart.
         (m)     Attorneys’ Fees. In the event that any dispute between the parties related to this
Agreement should result in litigation, the prevailing party in such litigation shall be entitled to recover from
the other party all reasonable fees and expenses of enforcing any right of the prevailing party, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses. Prevailing party means the party determined by the court to have
most nearly prevailed even if such party did not prevail in all matters. This provision will not be construed
to entitle any party other than Landlord, Tenant and their respective Affiliates to recover their fees and
expenses.
         (n)     WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES ITS RIGHT TO A TRIAL
BY JURY IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY ARISING
OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS IT
CONTEMPLATES.
         (o)     No Additional Fees/Incidental Fees. Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all
rights and obligations set forth in this Agreement may be exercised and shall be undertaken, respectively, by
Landlord and/or Tenant, as the case may be, at no additional cost. No unilateral fees or additional costs or
expenses are to be applied by either party to the other party, for any task or service including, but not
limited to, review of plans, structural analyses, consents, provision of documents or other communications
between the parties.
         (p)     Further Acts.        Upon request, Landlord will cause to be promptly and duly taken,
executed, acknowledged and delivered all such further acts, documents, and assurances as Tenant may
request from time to time in order to effectuate, carry out and perform all of the terms, provisions and
conditions of this Agreement and all transactions and permitted use contemplated by this Agreement.

25.    VERIZON WIRELESS CONSENT & LIMITED WAIVER. The effectiveness of this
Agreement is expressly conditioned upon the signature and acknowledgment of Verizon Wireless to the
Verizon Wireless Consent and Limited Waiver attached hereto as Attachment 1.



                               [SIGNATURES APPEAR ON NEXT PAGE]




                                                     16
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be effective as of the
Effective Date.

“LANDLORD”

Draper City
a municipal corporation

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:

Attest:



City Recorder


Approved as to Form:



City Attorney



“TENANT”

New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company

By: AT&T Mobility Corporation
Its: Manager

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:




                 [ACKNOWLEDGMENTS APPEAR ON NEXT TWO (2) PAGES]




                                            17
LANDLORD ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  A notary public or other officer completing
  this certificate verifies only the identity of
  the individual who signed the document to
  which this certificate is attached, and not
  the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
  that document.
State of Utah
County of Salt Lake

On ________________________________ before me,
________________________________________________,
                                               (insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared
____________________________________________________________________________,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of Utah that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.


Signature __________________________________                        (Seal)




                                                   18
TENANT ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  A notary public or other officer completing
  this certificate verifies only the identity of
  the individual who signed the document to
  which this certificate is attached, and not
  the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
  that document.
State of ___________________________________)
County of _________________________________)

On ________________________________ before me,
________________________________________________,
                                               (insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared
____________________________________________________________________________,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in
his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the
person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of ______________ that the
foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.


Signature __________________________________                        (Seal)




                                                19
                                            ATTACHMENT 1

                     VERIZON WIRELESS CONSENT & LIMITED WAIVER
                                      Page 1 of 2

Verizon Wireless (VAW) LLC, d/b/a Verizon Wireless (“Verizon Wireless”), is an existing tenant of the
City of Draper, a municipal corporation (“Landlord”), of a portion of that certain real property having a
common street address of 14996 Traverse Ridge Road, located in the City of Draper City, County of Salt
Lake, State of Utah [APN: 11-010-0063] ( “Property”), pursuant to that certain Option and Land Lease
Agreement dated January 17, 2012, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Option and Land
Lease Agreement dated August 14, 2012 (collectively “Verizon Wireless Lease”) between Landlord and
Verizon Wireless.

A complete copy of that certain Land Lease Agreement between Landlord and New Cingular Wireless
PCS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Tenant”), including all exhibits and attachments
thereto (collectively, the “Agreement”), for the leasing of a separate and distinct portion of the Property
by Landlord to Tenant has been provided to Verizon Wireless.

Verizon Wireless hereby knowingly and voluntarily (i) consents to the Agreement to the extent, if at all,
that Verizon Wireless has a right to consent to the Agreement pursuant to the Verizon Wireless Lease or
any other agreements pertaining to the Property; and (ii) waives its rights under Section 16 (Right of First
Refusal) and Section 17 (Rights Upon Sale) of the Verizon Wireless Lease, but only to the extent such
waiver of rights pertains to Landlord’s leasing of a portion of the Property to Tenant pursuant to the
Agreement. No other waiver of Verizon Wireless rights is intended either expressly or by implication.

Landlord and Tenant may each rely upon this Verizon Wireless Consent as a material inducement for
entering into the Agreement.


“VERIZON WIRELESS”

Verizon Wireless (VAW) LLC,
d/b/a Verizon Wireless

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:




                       [ACKNOWLEDGMENT APPEARS ON NEXT PAGE]
VERIZON WIRELESS ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  A notary public or other officer completing
  this certificate verifies only the identity of
  the individual who signed the document to
  which this certificate is attached, and not
  the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
  that document.
State of ___________________________________)
County of _________________________________)

On ________________________________ before me,
________________________________________________,
                                               (insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared
____________________________________________________________________________,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same
in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument
the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of ______________ that
the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.


Signature __________________________________                              (Seal)




                                                             Resolution 20-14 Lease Agreement with AT&T - SunCrest Water Tank #3
                                             EXHIBIT 1

                         DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY AND PREMISES
                                        Page 1 of 6

       to the Additional Ground Space Lease Agreement dated as of _______________, 2020, by and
between Draper City, a municipal corporation, as Landlord, and New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company, as Tenant.

The Property is legally described as follows:




The Premises are described and/or depicted as follows:

                      [Plan Set Dated December 24, 2019, Prepared by Nexius, and
                       Consisting of Five (5) Pages, Appears on Following Pages]




Notes:

1.   THIS EXHIBIT MAY BE REPLACED BY A LAND SURVEY AND/OR CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS OF THE PREMISES ONCE
     RECEIVED BY TENANT.
2.   ANY SETBACK OF THE PREMISES FROM THE PROPERTY’S BOUNDARIES SHALL BE THE DISTANCE REQUIRED BY THE
     APPLICABLE GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES.
3.   WIDTH OF ACCESS ROAD SHALL BE THE WIDTH REQUIRED BY THE APPLICABLE GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES,
     INCLUDING POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
4.   THE TYPE, NUMBER AND MOUNTING POSITIONS AND LOCATIONS OF ANTENNAS AND TRANSMISSION LINES ARE
     ILLUSTRATIVE ONLY. ACTUAL TYPES, NUMBERS AND MOUNTING POSITIONS MAY VARY FROM WHAT IS SHOWN


                                                               Resolution 20-14 Lease Agreement with AT&T - SunCrest Water Tank #3
ABOVE.




         Resolution 20-14 Lease Agreement with AT&T - SunCrest Water Tank #3
                                          EXHIBIT 11

                              ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURE

Landlord represents and warrants that the Property, as of the Effective Date, is free of hazardous
substances except as follows:

                                             1. None.
      EXHIBIT 12

STANDARD ACCESS LETTER

[FOLLOWS ON NEXT PAGE]
                                  {This Letter Goes On Landlord's Letterhead}




[Insert Date]

Building Staff / Security Staff
[Landlord, Lessee, Licensee]
[Street Address]
[City, State, Zip]

Re:   Authorized Access granted to New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC (“AT&T”)

Dear Building and Security Staff,

Please be advised that we have signed a lease with AT&T permitting AT&T to install, operate and
maintain telecommunications equipment at the property. The terms of the lease grant AT&T and its
representatives, employees, agents and subcontractors (“representatives”) 24 hour per day, 7 day per week
access to the leased area.

To avoid impact on telephone service during the day, AT&T representatives may be seeking access to the
property outside of normal business hours. AT&T representatives have been instructed to keep noise
levels at a minimum during their visit.

Please grant the bearer of a copy of this letter access to the property and to leased area. Thank you for
your assistance.



_______________________
Landlord Signature
     EXHIBIT 24(b)

MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

[FOLLOWS ON NEXT PAGE]
Recording Requested By
& When Recorded Return To:

New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC
Attn: Tower Asset Group – Lease Administration
1025 Lenox Park Blvd. NE, 3rd Floor
Atlanta, GA 30319

APN: 11-010-0063


                                                                    (Space Above This Line For
                                                                          Recorder’s Use Only)
Cell Site No.: UTL02011
Cell Site Name: Traverse Ridge (UT)
Fixed Asset No.: 12854507
State: Utah
County: Salt Lake

                                      MEMORANDUM
                                          OF
                                         LEASE


       This Memorandum of Lease is entered into on this _____ day of _______________,
2020, by and between Draper City, a municipal corporation, having a mailing address of 1020
Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020 (hereinafter called “Landlord”), and New Cingular Wireless
PCS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, having a mailing address of 1025 Lenox Park
Blvd. NE, 3rd Floor, Atlanta, GA 30319 (“Tenant”).


        1. Landlord and Tenant entered into a certain Land Lease Agreement dated as of
           _______________, 2020 (“Agreement”), for the purpose of installing, operating and
           maintaining a communication facility and other improvements. All of the foregoing
           is set forth in the Agreement.

        2. The initial lease term will be five (5) years commencing on the Effective Date, with
           five (5) successive automatic five (5) year options to renew.

        3. The portion of the land being leased to Tenant and associated easements are described
           in Exhibit 1 annexed hereto.

        4. The Agreement gives Tenant a right of first refusal in the event Landlord receives a
           bona fide written offer from a third party seeking any sale, conveyance, assignment or
           transfer, whether in whole or in part, of any property interest in or related to the
           Premises, including without limitation any offer seeking an assignment or transfer of
   the Rent payments associated with the Agreement or an offer to purchase an easement
   with respect to the Premises.

5. This Memorandum of Lease is not intended to amend or modify, and shall not be
   deemed or construed as amending or modifying, any of the terms, conditions or
   provisions of the Agreement, all of which are hereby ratified and affirmed. In the
   event of a conflict between the provisions of this Memorandum of Lease and the
   provisions of the Agreement, the provisions of the Agreement shall control. The
   Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their
   respective heirs, successors, and assigns, subject to the provisions of the Agreement.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Memorandum of Lease as of
the day and year first above written.

“LANDLORD”

Draper City
a municipal corporation

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:


Attest:



City Recorder


Approved as to Form:



City Attorney



“TENANT”

New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company

By: AT&T Mobility Corporation
Its: Manager

By:
Name:
Its:
Date:
[ACKNOWLEDGMENTS APPEAR ON NEXT TWO (2) PAGES]
LANDLORD ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  A notary public or other officer completing
  this certificate verifies only the identity of
  the individual who signed the document to
  which this certificate is attached, and not
  the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
  that document.
State of Utah
County of Salt Lake

On ________________________________ before me,
________________________________________________,
                                               (insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared
____________________________________________________________________________,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same
in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument
the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of Utah that the foregoing
paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.


Signature __________________________________                         (Seal)
TENANT ACKNOWLEDGMENT

  A notary public or other officer completing
  this certificate verifies only the identity of
  the individual who signed the document to
  which this certificate is attached, and not
  the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
  that document.
State of ___________________________________)
County of _________________________________)

On ________________________________ before me,
________________________________________________,
                                               (insert name and title of the officer)

personally appeared
____________________________________________________________________________,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same
in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument
the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of ______________ that
the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.


Signature __________________________________                         (Seal)
                      EXHIBIT 1 TO MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

                    DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY AND PREMISES
                                   Page 1 of 2

        to the Memorandum of Lease dated _______________, 2020, by and between Draper
City, a municipal corporation, as Landlord, and New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, a Delaware
limited liability company, as Tenant.

The Property is legally described as follows:




The Premises are described and/or depicted as follows:

[One (1) Page Depiction of the Premises Suitable for Recording in Salt Lake County Appears on
                                       Following Page]
