Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: December 17, 2020
Re: Wolf Addition Amended Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of an Amended Site Plan and modification of development requirements for approximately 1.75 acres located east of Pioneer Road and west of the Aqueduct Trail, at approximately 12169 S. Kodiak Ct. The property is currently zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² min lot size). The applicant is requesting that an Amended Site Plan and modification of development requirements be approved to allow for development on slopes in excess of 30% for the purpose of adding onto the existing home and making changes to the site grading and landscaping. The findings are as follows: Modification of Development Requirements:
For Approval:
1.  No significant harm will result.
2.  The proposed modification will result in a more functional and improved plan.
3.  The developer/builder agrees to comply with any conditions or requirements imposed by the planning commission to mitigate any adverse effects which may result from the proposed modification.
For Denial:
1. Significant harm may result.
2. The proposed modification does not result in a more functional and improved plan.
3. Adverse effects which may result from the proposed modification are not able to be mitigated.
Amended Site Plan:
For Approval:
1.   The proposed plan represents development of the entire site.
2.   The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
5.   The proposed development plans will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For Denial:
1.   The proposed plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
2.   The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.   The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.
4.   The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 12/11/2020 Cover Memo