Public Comments for 11.10 City Council meeting

Dear Draper City Council,

I am just taking a few minutes to express some concerns I have about the final
considerations in the "Short Subdivision" initiative.

During a large concrete pour for the huge garage complex many of the workers' cars lined
our small lane so cement trucks could negotiate the "pour" It became very apparent how
small and inconvenient and even dangerous the lane can become with excess vehicular
traffic. My point is that Mr. Short is building not only a massive house but a huge garage
complex that appears to hold approximately 25 cars and maybe even more if they double
stack them on lifts (the height of the walls is about 10-14 feet).

It would seem inevitable if you had this many cars from your "speed shop" you would like to
show them off to friends and the public. Where are people going to park? The lane is too
narrow and parking on 13200 south presents a real traffic safety problem as it blocks your
view of not only cars going East and West at accelerating speeds, but of the increasing
number of bikers, not to mention the twice a day school traffic.

In the first council meeting concerning this subdivision one of the council members
expressed concern that the proposed plan was not consistent with the "uniqueness" of the
area. As I watch the construction all the building seems to be super sized and to think of
cramming another house on the north portion of the property would greatly compromise
the view of the Smith family to the West, as they would be looking from their deck into the
window of the neighbor instead of the beautiful mountain view which they have had for the
last 30+ years. And to take this one step further I would suggest to Mr. Short that he
consider turning this back half acre into a mini-park with grass and playground equipment
and surround the grassy playground area with a paved portion that could be parking for his
"car" enthusiasts.

Thank you for your consideration in this matter---"Open Spaces matter"!

Sincerely, Walt Price
pricefunnyfarm@juno.com
