NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper Planning Commission will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday, April 9, 2020, at 6:30 PM, in the 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in the Council Chambers.   The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting This meeting will be an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As restrictions take place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make sure everyone interested in participating can do so in a manner they feel most comfortable.
Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email your comments to planning.comment@draper.ut.us by Noon on the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to planning.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, April 9, 2020.
6:30 PM    Business Meeting 1. Action Item: Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan Approval Extension Request (Administrative Action) On the request of Corey Solum, representing Think Architecture, for a one time six month extension to the site plan approval for the Windsor Mill Townhomes and Office Building Site Plan located at 11450 South 820 West. Application SP-277-2018. Staff contact Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.  2. Public Hearing: City-Initiated Grading and Slope Text Amendment (Legislative Action) A request by the City of Draper for approval of a Text Amendment to various sections of Draper City Municipal Code Title 9 to modify the regulations pertaining to grading, slopes, and retaining walls on properties. These changes would apply citywide. Application TEXTMAP-962-2020. Staff contact: Pete Kane, 801-576-6335, pete.kane@draper.ut.us. 3. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.   Date Posted: April 6, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.