Draft minutes September 3, 2020
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ELECTRONIC
MEETING HELD ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2020 IN THE DRAPER CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING
ELECTRONICALLY:          Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners John Van Hoff, Kent
                         Player, Gary Ogden, Alternate Commissioner Lisa Fowler and Tab
                         Bingham

ABSENT:                  Vice Chairman Craig Hawker and Alternate Commissioner DeLaina
                         Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:            Jennifer Jastremsky, Brien Maxfield, Maryann Pickering, Travis Van
                          Ekelenburg, Todd Draper and Amie Salazar

STAFF PRESENT
ELECTRONICALLY:           Spencer DuShane



The Agenda will be as follows:

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Electronic Meeting Notice

This meeting will be held electronically
   • Listen through our website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
   • Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below by Noon on
      the day of the meeting. These will become part of the public record.
   • If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the
      meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to the project planner listed on
      the agenda item below by noon, on the day of the meeting.

                             Written Determination 2020-09
                       Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

 A.       I, Andrew Adams, Chair of the Draper City Planning Commission, do hereby determine
 conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Planning Commission with an anchor
 location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
 the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Planning Commission to conduct
 electronic meetings without an anchor location.
 B.      The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
     • Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council,
         have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 2
     • COVID-19 cases and related hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue
         at rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
     • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and
         to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased
         Guidelines.
     • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
         Draper City residents.
     • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may
         hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
         hearings.
 C.      This written determination shall be included in the public notice of the Draper City
 Planning Commission meetings and shall be read at the beginning of an electronic meeting
 held without an anchor location.
 D.      The public notice of any meeting conducted pursuant to this written determination
 shall include information on how members of the public may hear, or view and hear, or
 make a
comment at the meeting.
 E.     This written determination shall take effect immediately and will expire thirty (30) days
after the date written below or until revoked, whichever is earlier.
F. This written determination shall be filed promptly with the office of the city recorder.
DATED this 31st day of August, 2020.


   1. Action Item: Jenson Farms Phase 1B Final Subdivision Plat Request
      (Administrative Action)
      A request by Tim Gough, representing Gough Homes, for approval of a Final
      Subdivision Plat in the R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 square foot lot minimum)
      for a three lot and one parcel single-family development. The property is located at 578
      West Rolling Hills Way. Application: SUBD-1051-2020. Staff contact: Maryann
      Pickering at (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us.

Maryann Pickering gave a presentation on the development agreement. She showed an aerial
view of where the phase one would be. This plat would encompass Willow Creek and there
would be three other plats. The land use was Residential Medium Density, and the zoning was
R4. This subdivision had been previously approved by the City Council and Planning
Commission. Approval of this phase would allow for the rest of the subdivision to commence.
She stated she was happy to answer any questions.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler commented there was land sold to the school district in that
development and wondered about the elementary school that was supposed to be built on that
part of the parcel.

Ms. Pickering showed a highlighted portion of the map and stated if a school were to be built, it
would be in the highlighted area.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 3
Commissioner John Van Hoff thanked Maryann for the map because it clarified where the
development was in relation to other developments.

Commissioner Kent Player asked if the creek went along the red boundary on the map.

Mr. Pickering replied the creek did go on the edge of the boundary and the approved park would
be on the other side of the stream.

Commissioner Player stated his company used the stream and was afraid of losing access to the
pump. There needed to be some type of convenient access to the pump for irrigation companies,
as his company needed to access the pump several times per day.

Brien Maxfield, the City Engineer, stated an adjacent part of the property to lot 109 had an
irrigation easement district that was being recorded and there would be equipment on site in the
next 30-45 days.

Commissioner Player mentioned they stopped needing access to the pump mid-September and
that timeline would work out.

Chairman Adams asked for any additional questions and there were none.

       Motion re: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to approve the Final Subdivision Plat
       requested by Tim Gough representing Gough Homes, application SUBD-1051-2020, based
       on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 20, 2020
       and Commissioner Player seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.


2.     Action Item: Jenson Farms Phase 6 Final Subdivision Plat Request (Administrative
       Action)
       A request by Tim Gough, representing Bowler Properties, for approval of a Final
       Subdivision Plat in the R4 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 square foot lot minimum)
       for a three-lot single-family development located at approximately 11875 South 700
       West. Application: SUBD-1045-2020. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at (801) 576-
       6391or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us.

Ms. Pickering gave a presentation on this item. She showed phase six and highlighted it on the
screen and mentioned its land use was Residential Medium Density and was zoned R4. This was
the smallest phase of Jenson development and contained three lots. She commented she could
answer any questions on this item.

Commissioner Player asked about a lot that neighbored this lot.

Ms. Pickering replied that lot was actually two lots and had already been recorded.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 4

Chairman Adams asked for any questions and there were none.

Chairman Adams asked if the applicant is present and he was in attendance.

Tim Gough, the applicant, stated he didn’t have any questions, but could answer any questions
commissioners had for him.

       Motion re: Commissioner Ogden made a motion to approve the Final Subdivision Plat as
       requested by Tim Gough and Commissioner Van Hoff seconded the motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.


3.     Public Hearing: Short Subdivision Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
       Action)
       A request by Alex Short, to amend the zoning designation for the property from RA1
       (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential
       Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum). The property is approximately 1.5 acres
       in size and is located at approximately 1017 East 13200 South. Application TEXTMAP
       1028-2020. Staff contact Todd A. Draper (801) 576-6335 or todd.draper@draper.ut.us.

Todd Draper, the staff contact, gave a presentation on the item. This was approximately 1.5 acres
located at 1017 East 13200 South. The applicant was looking to rezone from RA1 to RA2. There
as a mix of RA1 and RA2 zoning in the neighborhood. The land use was Residential low to
medium density and the RA2 zone would be consistent with this designation. He showed site
photos. This property had a settlement agreement that was created in 2016. Staff recommended
receiving the request, having public comment, and making a decision based on this information.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if this private drive would remain as a private status.

Mr. Draper replied that was a question that would be best answered by the applicant.

Senior Planner Jennifer Jastremsky stated the applicant would have to go through a process to
maintain this as a private lane and would have to provide documentation they had a legal right to
have this as a private lane.

Chairman Adams asked if there were any additional questions and there were none.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated the applicant was not in the meeting.

Bryan Campbell, a neighbor, stated he would like to make a comment.

Ms. Jastremsky replied they had to open the public hearing and then he could make his comment
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 5
Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Bryan Campbell, a neighbor, stated his housed backed up to the private back road. Their property
went onto where they were trying to develop. He was concerned that the lot was too small to put
something on it and sharing the private road. The private road did not give value to his property,
but he still owned a piece of it. He was concerned about something being built on a piece of land
he owned.

Taylor Cotterell at 13114 Grouse Point Cove, just south of Bryan. He was concerned the
property backed up to his back yard and the property was very narrow and likely tall house. He
also owned part of the lane behind him and they gave no permission to access to this lane. He
would rather not give permission to a house that would end up being tall and towering over his
yard.

Elizabeth Hansen, at 13052 Grouse Point Cove, stated she had access to the lane behind her
house. She had the same concerns as the previous comments.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

David Wilding, representing Alex Short, dropped offline

Chairman Adams asked if there were any questions.

Commissioner Lisa Fowler mentioned she understood the concerns the neighbors had. She did
not know how else the land could be developed though.

Mr. Draper clarified the applicant was asking for just a zoning change and they could deliberate
over the plat when the applicant came to the planning commission about their plans with the plat.

       Motion re: Commissioner Player made a motion to send a positive recommendation to
       the City Council to amend the zoning designation and Commissioner Fowler seconded the
       motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

4.     Public Hearing: Park Crossing Zoning Map Amendment and Land Use Map
       Amendment (Legislative Action)
       On the request of Robert Thomson representing Utah Land Co. LLC, for approval of a
       Zoning Map Amendment from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot
       minimum) and CC (Community Commercial) to RM2 (Multiple-Family Residential, up to
       12 dwelling units per acre) and a Land Use Map Amendment from Residential
       Low/Medium Density and Neighborhood Commercial to Residential High-Density Land
       Use designation. The property is 3.7 acres in size and located at approximately 675 West,
       679 West, 681 West, and 693 West 12300 South. Applications T EXT MAP-1013-2020
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 6
       and TEXT MAP-1016-2020. Staff contact is Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522,
       travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, the staff contact, gave a presentation. He mentioned the applicant
wanted to change the zoning on several properties for a future town home development. The
properties were currently a mix of RA1, and CC zoning and the applicant was requesting to
change the zoning for all of them to RM2 zoning. RM2 zoning was meant for relatively high-
density townhomes or apartment buildings. All the subject properties were 3.7 acres. Parts of the
neighborhood were Neighborhood Commercial and Residential low to medium designation. The
engineering department mentioned low density areas would not be affected by the change of this
zoning.

Commissioner Fowler wanted to know more about the buffering.

Mr. Maxfield responded UDOT had a plan to widen the street and wanted to preserve space for
widening the street.

Chairman Adams asked for further questions and invited the applicant to speak.

Robert Thomson, the applicant, stated this was a good project on the outskirts of Draper City.
There was a proposed dog park on the site plan, and they had talked to Parks and Recreation
about this. They also had come up with another access point. He took rezoning very seriously
and went through City Code to make sure the requested zoning fit their subdivision. He stated he
could answer any questions.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Tim Gough did not have a comment.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Fowler commented on a letter sent by Fred Jones. He was concerned about spot
zoning, but she thought they liked using buffers. She liked how this would match another
development across the street.

Commissioner Player mentioned there were some traffic issues.

Mr. Maxfield replied they would not know of access points and street safety until they brought
the site plans in.

Commissioner Van Hoff commented UDOT would likely conduct a traffic study and agreed with
Ms. Fowler in thinking this was a good application. He liked that this would provide a buffer.

Commissioner Player stated every letter he had seen were all against changing the zoning.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 7
       Motion re: Commissioner Van Hoff made a motion to forward a positive recommendation
       to City Council as requested by Robert Thomson and Commissioner Fowler seconded the
       motion.

         Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
         This item passed with a 4 to 1 vote. Commissioner Player voted “nay”.

         Motion re: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to forward a positive recommendation
         to City Council for the zoning amendment as requested by Robert Thomson and
         Commissioner Ogden seconded the motion.

         Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting 4-1 in favor of the motion.
         This item passed with a 4 to 1 vote. Commissioner Player voted “nay”.


5.       Public Hearing: City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment (Legislative Action)
         On the request of Draper City for a text amendment to amend Section 9-27-090 Flag Lots
         of the Draper City Municipal Code. This application is known as the City Initiated Flag
         Lot Text Amendment. Application: TEXTMAP -1049-2020. Staff contact Todd A.
         Draper, 801576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us.

Mr. Draper stated this was a text amendment being proposed. On April 7, 2020, the City Council
enacted a moratorium on new development applications of flag lots and this expired on October 7,
2020. The proposed changes were as follows:

     •   An updated purpose statement was noted
     •   Added a preference of development to be on private lanes
     •   Put a limit on flag lots for lot splits or subdivisions
     •   Limited it to non-classified streets
     •   Increase of the width of the staff to 30 feet
     •   Increase minimum flag size to 1.25 times the current minimum
     •   Requiring paved driveways with screening
     •   Increased setbacks and made them uniform
     •   Language to reduce structure size and allowable lot coverage
     •   Added a new graphic

Mr. Draper showed an image to give the Planning Commission an example of what this would
look like. Staff requested one change in language clarifying where the front of the property was.

Chairman Adams asked for clarification of the language for the front of the property.

Mr. Draper replied language regarding where the front of the property was had been ambiguous,
so they clarified the front of the property was the one closest to facing the street.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 8
Ms. Jastremsky explained their code did not clarify where a house faced and so they had to clarify
the flag lot would have to be on the front of the property facing the street.

Chairman Adams thanked Ms. Jastremsky for the clarification.

Commissioner Van Hoff wondered why they had to define where the front of the property was.

Mr. Draper replied defining front yard made it easier to administrate.

Commissioner Fowler asked what the main concerns were.

Mr. Draper replied the main concern was the health and safety and ensure new developments do
not loom onto adjacent properties. They did not want to have properties being intrusive.

Commissioner Fowler commented that explanation made sense. She asked if they would be adding
the diagram to the ordinance so a person could understand what a flag lot was.

Ms. Jastremsky stated she could pull up the definition of a flag lot was in City code and read it to
the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Fowler thought they needed to reference the definition in the code so a citizen could
easily understand what a flag lot was.

Spencer DuShane thought Commissioner Fowler’s idea was good. They could link the definition
online. She could amend the motion to add the definition to the code.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing

       Motion re: Commissioner Fowler made a motion to send a positive recommendation to
       the City Council with recommended change 11 and Commissioner Player seconded the
       motion.

       Vote: A roll call vote was taken with Commissioners voting unanimously in favor of the
       motion. This item passed with a 5 to 0 vote.

6.     Adjournment

Chairman Adams asked if there was any other business or announcements.

Chairman Adams moved to adjourn the meeting. Chairman Adams called for a vote and all were
unanimous in favor of adjournment.


       The meeting adjourned at 7:45 pm
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
September 3, 2020
Page 9
