Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: November 10, 2020
Re: City Initiated 2020 Q3 Bulk – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify the development access point requirements and reduce or eliminate the requirement for paper submissions with applications.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their October 8, 2020 meeting and made a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1454 11/2/2020 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 11/2/2020 Cover Memo