                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                           (801) 576-6539

                                            STAFF REPORT
                                              February 11, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: February 27, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division - Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      BL Smith Zoning Map Amendment Request
         Application No.:  TEXTMAP-934-2020
         Applicant:        Byron L. & Sue Ann Smith
         Project Location: 999 E 13200 S
         Current Zoning:   RA1 Residential Zone
         Acreage:          1.13 Acres (Approximately 49,222 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a zoning map amendment to change the zoning map
                           from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. minimum) to RA2
                           (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. minimum) on the subject property.

SUMMARY & BACKGROUND
This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.13 acres
located on the North side of 1000 East at 13200 South. The property is currently zoned RA1 (Residential
Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. minimum). The applicants are seeking a change in zoning designation from
RA1 (Single-family Residential, 40,000 sq. ft. minimum) to RA2 (Single-family Residential, 20,000 sq.
ft. minimum). The subject properties are accessed to the south by an asphalt driveway that leads to a
single family home with a detached garage, constructed in approximately 1980.

ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low/Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property. Characteristics of this category includes the
following:

             •    Very large lot single-family neighborhoods or ranchettes allows for enhancement of
                  Draper’s rural character.
             •    Environmentally designed clustered housing with the Suncrest and South Mountain
                  projects being the exceptions.
             •    Some natural features and cultivated vegetation is apparent and special care is required in
                  order to preserve those features and areas.
             •    Equestrian uses and privileges may exist in certain areas.




BL Smith                                                                                    TEXTMAP-934-2020
Zoning Map Amendment Request                          1
The property is currently assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately one dwelling
unit per acre (40,000 sq. ft. min lot size). The Resedential Low/Medium Density category anticipates the
RA1 or RA2 zoning categories in this area. RA2 is the dominant zoning designation in proximity but
directly contiguous to the subject properties are the following zoning designations:

West: RA2
East: RA1
South: RA2
North: RA1

Considering that the current RA1 zoning is 40,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size and that the lot is just
over an acre at 1.13 acres (1 Acre = 43560 sq. ft.) this would only allow for one lot. Reducing
the minimum lot size to 20,000 sq. ft. with the RA2 zoning designation would possibly give the
opportunity to add an additional lot with a subdivision. If the change in zoning is granted, any
future development or use on the property will have to comply with code regulations and any
development standards in effect at the time.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a zoning map amendment request
is found in Sections 9-5-060 (E) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

         1. Map Amendments:
                a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                   the city's general plan;
                b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                   existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
                c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                   overlay zone;
                d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
                   and
                e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                   including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                   protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater
                   and refuse collection.

REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the zoning
map amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the zoning map amendment submission. Comments from this
division can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the zoning
map amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the zoning map
amendment submission. The Fire Marshall has no issues in regard to this rezone request. Any further
comments will be found in Exhibit A.




BL Smith                                                                                   TEXTMAP-934-2020
Zoning Map Amendment Request                         2
Noticing. Notices have been sent in the manner outlined in the city and state codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or
denial, listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1.       That Section 9-5-060 of the Draper City Municipal Code allows for the amendment of the
                  city’s zoning map;
         2.       That all findings for a zone map change, as contained in DCMC Section 9-5-060 (E), are
                  satisfied;
         3.       That adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including but not
                  limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools,
                  storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;
         4.       That the proposed zone map change is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                  development in the vicinity of the subject property; and the General Plan.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

         1.       The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  Draper City General Plan.
         2.       That the findings for a zone map change, as contained in DCMC Section 9-5-060 (E), are
                  not satisfied.
         3.       The RA2 zone is not appropriate for this parcel given the surrounding zoning on two
                  sides.

MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for the BL Smith zoning map amendment, as requested by Byron & Sue Ann Smith,
from RA1 to RA2, application TEXTMAP-934-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report
dated February 11, 2020.”



Sample Motion for a Modified Positive Recommendation – “I move that we forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council for the BL Smith zoning map amendment, as requested by Byron &
Sue Ann Smith, from RA1 to RA2, application TEXTMAP-934-2020, based on the findings listed in the
Staff Report dated February 11, 2020 and as modified by the following:”

         1.       List any additional findings…

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the
City Council for the BL Smith zoning map amendment, as requested by Byron & Sue Ann Smith, from
RA1 to RA2, application TEXTMAP-934-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
February 11, 2020.”




BL Smith                                                                                     TEXTMAP-934-2020
Zoning Map Amendment Request                           3
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review

Planning has reviewed the following application. The purpose of the RA2 zone is the same as that of the
RA1 zone, which is to foster low to medium density development with little impact on its surroundings
and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city’s semi-rural areas; and to promote
and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life. Changing the zoning designation to RA2 would
not be unfavorable to the area.

Should the zoning request be approved Draper City makes no representation that the property will be
legally permitted to subdivide nor has this representation been made to the applicant. The applicant will
be required to comply will DCMC for any further subdivision, redevelopment, development, or
otherwise.

Engineering Division Review
We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing 1.13 acres within two parcels
to be zoned from RA1 to RA2 in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-060(E) of the Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve
the subject property. In making an amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors.
Accordingly, the following comments are recommended for your consideration:

1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not limited
to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage
systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection. Other than noted below, we are not aware
of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this property.
        a. Connectivity with these parcels is required to be through access to 13200 South, a minor
        collector. Specific access locations will be evaluated with any site plan or subdivision submittal.
        Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our Master
        Transportation Plan. A Traffic Impact Study may be required.
        b. Existing storm drainage facilities are available in 13200 south. Provisions for onsite storm
        drainage will need to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply
        with the provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal
        Code.
        c. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision
        application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities are adequate
        to provide service for the proposed uses.
        d. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision application will
        require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service
        for the proposed uses.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT E
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
