                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, Utah 84020


                                          STAFF REPORT
                                             March 2, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: April 2, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Pete Kane, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             (801) 576-6335 or pete.kane@draper.ut.us

Re:      Seidel Residence—Plat Amendment Request
         Application No.:  SUBD-939-2020
         Applicant:        Stephen & Diana Seidel
         Project Location: 1888 E 12200 S
         Current Zoning:   RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          Approximately 0.50 Acres (approximately 21,759 square feet)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 (Residential
                           Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) Zone to vacate a portion of
                           an access easement to allow for a new home construction.


BACKGROUND & SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Plat Amendment for approximately 0.50 acres located at
1888 E 12200 S. The property is currently zoned RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot
minimum) Zone. The applicant is requesting that a Plat Amendment be approved to vacate a portion of a
private access easement to allow for a new home construction.

The property was originally subdivided in 2005 with lots 10 and 11 having a shared access with a
hammerhead turnaround on each property. Lot 10 (along with most of the other lots in the subdivision)
has since been developed with single-family dwellings. The applicant is seeking to build a single-family
dwelling on Lot 11 and is looking to remove the private hammerhead turnaround portion of the access in
order to build the home.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low/Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property. This category is characterized as follows:




Seidel Residence                                                                       App. # SUBD-939-2020
Plat Amendment Request                               1
The property has been assigned the RA2 Zone classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
units per acre. The purpose of the RA2 Zone is to “foster low density development with little impact on
its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited
numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-
family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses.”

The RA2 Zone designation is identified by the General Plan as a preferred zoning classification for the
Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation. RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square
foot lot minimum) zoning abuts the subject property on the east, and RA2 abuts on the south, west, and
north.

Subdivision Amendment. Lot 11 of the Elggren subdivision includes approximately 0.50 acres of land
with a private access easement over the staff portion of lots 10 and 11. A hammerhead turnaround access
easement was approved under the subdivision to allow for fire apparatus turnaround, however, it limited



Seidel Residence                                                                         App. # SUBD-939-2020
Plat Amendment Request                               2
the buildable area of the lot. That hammerhead as platted cannot be constructed. The amended plans
removes the hammerhead turnaround on Lot 11 in order to provide the needed space for the future single-
family home to be built on the subject property. In place of the 2018 International Fire Code requirement
for proper access, the Fire Department has agreed to removal of the turnaround by installing a residential
fire sprinkler system in the to-be-constructed dwelling.

Additionally, the building setback requirements have changed since the original subdivision approval.
The amended plat includes the current building setback requirements for the RA2 Zone.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Plat Amendment request is
found in Section 17-9-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”). This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENT 17-9-040
The Planning Commission may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended plat
showing the vacation or amendment if the Land Use Authority finds that there is good cause for the
vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions has completed their review of the Plat Amendment submission. Comments from the Division,
if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Plat
Amendment submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire has completed their review of the Plat Amendment
submission. Comments from the Division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Planning Commission
review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
         Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the construction of all buildings
         on the site, including permitting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

1.       There is good cause for vacation or amendment; and no public street, right-of-way, or municipal


Seidel Residence                                                                          App. # SUBD-939-2020
Plat Amendment Request                                3
         easement has been vacated or amended.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval
I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested by Stephen & Diana Seidel for the Seidel
Residence, application SUBD-939-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 2, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval
I move that we approve the Plat Amendment, as requested by Stephen & Diana Seidel for the Seidel
Residence, application SUBD-939-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated March 2, 2020 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1.        List any additional findings and conditions…




Seidel Residence                                                                       App. # SUBD-939-2020
Plat Amendment Request                                4
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.

Planning Division Review.
   1. Final Plat. Before the mylar is printed, references to “Lot 11” need to be replaced with “Lot
       11A” as requested by Salt Lake County Recorder, except for the title which should remain as
       “Elggren Subdivision – Lot 11 Amendment.”

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. General Items. Drawings are to be stamped and signed by a P.E. registered in Utah per DCMC
       17-1-065(C) & 17-3-030(B).

Building Division Review.
No comments.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26)
        feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued. The fire department
        understands that this can’t be met and a residential fire sprinkler system will be installed in the
        home.
    2. Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13D fire sprinkler shop drawings
        are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of plans,
        with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
        level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. All fire protection plans require 3rd party review prior
        to be submitted to the Draper Fire Department.
    3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
        plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
        their background.
    4. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being, issued. All
        lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT E
SUBDIVISION PLAT
