Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: April 23, 2020
Re: City Initiated Use Tables Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment. These text amendments have been initiated by the City and are being proposed to reflect the intent and effect of the Land Use Development Amendments approved by the Utah State Legislature, and ratified by the Governor, in the 2019 General Session (H.B. 315 Fourth Substitute). The proposed text amendments will affect Draper City Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Chapters 9-9, 9-10, 9-11, 9-12, 9-13, and 9-14. The changes would apply city wide, excepting Commercial Special Districts, those properties with Development Agreements and Master Planned Communities.
During the 2019 General Session of the Utah State Legislature, the Land Use Development Amendments (H.B. 315 Fourth Substitute) were adopted and ratified by the Governor. The result of the amended State Code is that a City’s threshold to deny a conditional permit is high. As a result, a holistic review of uses is required to determine if a use should be permitted, conditional, or not permitted. Overall, the goal is to reduce the number of conditional use permits. Cities in the state have been updating their permitted uses to outline what is and is not permitted, with fewer conditional use designations. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendments implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with any another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Staff Report 4/17/2020 Cover Memo