                                     Development Review Committee
                                         1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020

                                           STAFF REPORT
                                           September 17, 2019



To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 26, 2019

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared by: Dan Boles, AICP
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-567-6335, dan.boles@draper.ut.us

Re:      Offices on 7th Land Use Map and Zoning Map Amendment
         Application No.:    TEXTMAP-770-2019 and TEXTMAP-771-2019
         Applicant:          Keaton Morton
         Project Location:   681 E. Pioneer Rd. and 12388 S. 700 E.
         Current Zoning:     RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum)
         Acreage:            0.99 acre (Approximately 43,124 ft2)
         Request:            To change the land use designation from Residential Medium Density to
                             Neighborhood Commercial, and to change the zoning designation from
                             RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) to CN
                             (Neighborhood Commercial).


SUMMARY AND BACKGROUND
The subject property consists of two contiguous parcels located on the northwest quadrant of 700 East and
Pioneer Road. The applicant’s intent is to build a two-story building that would house a personal
instruction use on the main floor and an office use on the upper floor, both of which are permitted uses in
the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. The city has a policy that a proposed zone change shall
comply with the General Plan designation, which means the underlying land use designation needs to be
changed to Neighborhood Commercial.

In March of this year, the Planning Commission heard a rezone request to CN, which, if successful,
would have allowed the applicant to construct an outpatient facility for addiction recovery. The Planning
Commission forwarded a negative recommendation, and the application was withdrawn. No final decision
on that application was made by the City Council.


ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. Currently, the land use map of the general plan designates the subject area as



Offices on 7th                                                           TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                  1
Residential Medium Density, which contemplates up to four residential dwelling units per acre. The
requested land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial supports commercial land uses that target
local residents and neighborhoods—uses such as planned retail and office.

The requested zoning designation of CN is intended to promote a combination of retail and service
facilities which, in character and scale, meet day-to-day needs of nearby residents. Per Draper City
Municipal Code (“DCMC”) Table 9-11-2, the CN zone has a minimum establishment area of 1 acre,
unless the property has a land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial. In those instances, the
minimum area required to establish a CN zone is 10,000 square feet.

The RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum), R3 (Single-family Residential,
13,000 square foot lot minimum), and R4 (Single-family Residential, 10,000 square foot lot minimum)
zoning designations are identified by the General Plan as the preferred zoning classifications for the
Residential Medium Density land use designation. The General Plan identifies the CN zoning destination
as the preferred classification for the Neighborhood Commercial land use designation. Located to the
north of the property is the CS (Commercial Services) zone, to the east is the TC (Town Center) zone, to
the west is the RA2 zone, and to the south is the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot
minimum) zone.

The subject property abuts residential zoning on its west and south sides. There is a residential use on its
east side, namely Beehive Senior Living. A rezone request to CN in the midst of so much residential
must be given careful consideration. It could be argued that the Neighborhood Commercial land use and
CN zoning designations contemplate uses that are inappropriate for an area so dominated by residential
uses. On the other hand, Pioneer Road is classified as a minor collector street, as is 700 East south of
12300 South. These two streets are classified as such due to having heavier traffic volumes than does a
local road in a residential area. As such, the CN zoning designation and the applicant’s intent to construct
an office building limited to two stories in height (35-feet maximum) may be reasonable.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and approval of a zoning map amendment is found in
Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC. This section sets forth the standard of review as follows:

        1. Map Amendments:
           a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                City’s General Plan;
           b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                development in the vicinity of the subject property;
           c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone.
           d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
                and
           e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
                but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
                schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
                collection.

While there are no criteria for approval of an amendment to the land use map, there is a purpose statement
and criteria for what the plan shall address as found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).

         Land Use Map Amendment:
         B. Purpose: The purpose of the general plan is to provide the city with a comprehensive, long
            range plan for its present and future needs regarding efficient and managed growth and


Offices on 7th                                                            TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                   2
              development of land within the city. The general plan, and any amendments thereto, are
              intended to be an advisory guide for land use decisions within the city, and shall be drafted
              and adopted in accordance with the general plan provisions of the municipal land use
              development and management act set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-401 et
              seq., as amended.
              1. The plan addresses the following matters:
                  a. Health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation, transportation, prosperity, civic
                       activities, aesthetics, and recreational, educational, and cultural opportunities.
                  b. Reduction of the waste of physical, financial, or human resources that result from
                       either excessive congestion or excessive scattering of population.
                  c. Efficient and economical use, conservation, and production of the supply of food and
                       water, and drainage, sanitary, and other facilities and resources.
                  d. Use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy resources.
                  e. Protection of urban development.
                  f. Protection and promotion of air quality.


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed its review of the land use
and zone change submission. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Division Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the land use and zone change submission. Comments, if any,
from these divisions can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed its review of the land use and zone
change submission. Comments, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the land use
and zoning map amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Noticing for both the land use change and the zone change has been properly issued in the
manner outlined in the city and state codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, listed within
the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1. That the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper
            City General Plan.
         2. That the facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not
            limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm
            water drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection are adequate.
         3. The proposed amendment complies with the findings in Section 9-5-060-E of the DCMC.
         4. The proposed amendment complies with the criteria in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B).

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:


Offices on 7th                                                             TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                    3
         1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the Draper
            City General Plan.
            a. Zoning categories that are contemplated for the Neighborhood Commercial land use area
                allow uses that are not compatible with existing development and could harm the
                interests of those living and working in the area.
         2. The Neighborhood Commercial land use designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate
            for an area that is dominated by residential uses.
         3. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing
            development in the vicinity of the subject property due to the additional types of uses that
            would be allowed.
         4. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards found in DCMC Section 9-2-
            020(B).


MODEL MOTIONS
Land Use Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a land use amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, as requested by
Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-770-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
September 17, 2019.”

Sample Motion for Modified Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for a land use amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, as
requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-770-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff
report dated September 17, 2019 and as modified by the findings below:”

    1.    List any additional findings.

Sample Motion for Denial “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
land use amendment from Residential Medium Density to Neighborhood Commercial, as requested by
Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-770-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated
September 17, 2019.”


Zoning Map Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a zoning map amendment from RA2 to CN, as requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-771-
2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 17, 2019.”

Sample Motion for Modified Approval “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for a zoning map amendment from RA2 to CN, as requested by Keaton Morton, application
TEXTMAP-771-2019, based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 17, 2019,” and as
modified by the following.”

    1. List any additional findings.

Sample Motion for Denial “I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
zoning map amendment from RA2 to, as requested by Keaton Morton, application TEXTMAP-771-2019,
based on the findings listed in the staff report dated September 17, 2019.”



Offices on 7th                                                         TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                  4
                                                    EXHIBIT A

Engineering and Public Works Comments
In making an amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors:

    1. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including but not limited
       to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage
       systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

         Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities intended to serve this
         property.

              a. Connectivity with these parcels is required to be through access to 1300 East, a major
                 collector. Specific access locations will be evaluated with any site plan or subdivision
                 submittal. Access locations will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
                 Master Transportation Plan. A Traffic Impact Study may be required.

              b. Existing storm drainage facilities are not available adjacent to the subject properties.
                 Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any subdivision or site plan
                 application, and shall comply with the provisions of the development requirements within the
                 DCMC.

              c. Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any subdivision
                 application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer District that facilities are
                 adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

              d. Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision application will
                 require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that facilities are adequate to provide service
                 for the proposed uses.

Planning Comments
The requested land use designation of Neighborhood Commercial and zoning designation of CN are fully
compatible with existing commercial activity in the area. CN is a low intensity, low impact commercial
zoning designation that accommodates uses that staff believes will have no adverse impact on either the
storage facility to the north or the senior living center to the east. On the west and south of the subject
property, there are long-existing residential uses that could potentially be impacted by commercial zoning
in such close proximity. As noted earlier in this report, one of the purposes of the CN zone is “to promote
a combination of retail and service facilities which, in scale and character, meet day-to-day needs of
nearby residents.” As such, the CN zone contemplates having residential uses nearby, and the allowed
uses in the zone have been selected to not only have low impact on its residential neighbors, but also to
help them meet some of their basic needs.




Offices on 7th                                                                TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments                      5
                                     EXHIBIT B

                                     Aerial Map




Offices on 7th                                    TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments       6
                                      EXHIBIT C

                                     Land Use Map




Offices on 7th                                      TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments        7
                                     EXHIBIT D

                                     Zoning Map




Offices on 7th                                    TEXTMAP-770-2019 & 771-2019
Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments       8
