Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: April 23, 2020
Re: City Initiated 2020 Q1 – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment. These text amendments have been initiated by the City and are being proposed in order to update code, make clarifications, and to propose common sense standards. They cover various topics and sections within the Land Use and Development Code and the Subdivision Ordinance within the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 4/17/2020 Cover Memo