                                         Development Review Committee
                                             1020 East Pioneer Road
                                               Draper, UT 84020
                                                February 4, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: February 27, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2) – Preliminary Plat Request
         Application No.:  SUBD-926-2019
         Applicant:        Armando Alvarez
         Project Location: 644 East 12225 South
         Current Zoning:   O-R (Office Residential)
         Acreage:          2.48 Acres (Approximately 108,028 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Subdivision in the O-R (Office Residential) zone.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
The subject properties are part of the Midas Creek approved Site Plan, which includes the first phase of
Victoria Woods. This site plan was approved in 2007 by the planning commission and consisted of 50
residential units on 5.71 acres, yielding a total residential density for the development of 8.8 units per
acre. The O-R (Office-Residential) zone placed on the subject properties have a density cap of 12
residential units per acre. As such, the current site plan can have only 18 residential unit’s maximum
before it exceeds the density cap for the entire Midas Creek/Victoria Woods Site Plan Area.

The Planning Commission approved a site plan for 17 townhomes on the subject property on June 13,
2019.

This application is a request for approval of a preliminary subdivision plat for approximately 2.48 acres
located on the North side of 12225 South, at approximately 644 East. The applicant is requesting that a
preliminary subdivision be approved for the development of a 17 unit townhome project. The entire
project is encompassing two (2) undeveloped parcels that are accessed from an existing private lane off
12300 south.

The two parcels that are part of this application:
   1. 283-042-6034-0000
   2. 283-042-6026-0000




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                       App #SUBD-926-2019
Preliminary Subdivision                                1
ANALYSIS
General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for Neighborhood Commercial
land use designation for the subject properties. Characteristics of the Neighborhood Commercial land use
designation include the following:
    1. Small-scale commercial land uses that serve local residents in adjacent neighborhoods
    2. Minimal impact in predominantly residential areas
    3. Well-landscaped street frontages
    4. Limited traffic access points and pedestrian access from surrounding residential areas
    5. Don’t overcrowd commercial lots; i.e., require adequate setback and landscape buffers
    6. Screened parking and adequate ingress and egress to parking areas
    7. Adequate drainage
    8. Low noise standards

The properties have been assigned the O-R zoning designation. Development in this zone is composed of
certain developments used primarily to provide administrative, clerical, and professional offices of a
residential scale and character, to serve nearby residential and commercial areas, as well as the city as a
whole. These uses are characterized by low volume, direct daily customer contact. Secondarily, this
district provides for medium-high density residential use (0 to 12 du/ac).

The O-R zone is designed to be a transitional zone, and should be used to buffer low density residential
uses from more intense land uses, districts, and heavily traveled transportation routes. The property
development standards, while strict in order to protect adjacent low density residential uses, are designed
to be flexible in design, and to allow housing constructed within this district to incorporate its own
protection from more intense adjacent uses. The subject area is surrounded by the following zoning
designations:

North: R3 (Single-family Residential, 13,000 square foot lot minimum) RA2 (Residential Agricultural,
20,000 square foot lot minimum)
South: RA2
West: CSD-DD (Commercial Special District Day Dairy)
East: O-R

Subdivision Layout. Parcel 283-042-6034-0000 will have four (4) Townhomes and Parcel 283-042-6026-
000 will have the additional thirteen (13) townhomes. The approved Site Plan shows a private lane that
accesses the subject properties with standard parking stalls and individual townhome units that vary from
approximately 1500 to 1800 square feet in size. The proposed plat will not affect the site layout, parking,
or landscaping areas.

Criteria for Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a preliminary subdivision plat
request is found in Section 17-3-040(A) of the Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

         A. Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat submittal
            and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this chapter and all other
            ordinances of Draper City, including, but not limited to, the land use ordinance, general plan,
            master street plan, and City standard specifications and design criteria. Notice of the public
            meeting at which the Planning Commission reviews the proposed preliminary plat shall be
            provided in accordance with section 17-1-085 of this title. The Planning Commission shall
            make findings specifying any inadequacy in the application, noncompliance with City
            regulations, questionable or undesirable design or engineering, and the need for any
            additional information. The Planning Commission may review all relevant information



The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                      App #SUBD-926-2019
Preliminary Subdivision                              2
              pertaining to the proposed development, including fire protection, sufficient supply of
              culinary and secondary water to the proposed subdivision, sewer service, traffic
              considerations, and the potential for flooding.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Preliminary Plat submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Preliminary Plat submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A. .

Geotechnical Review. . Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon Associates LLC., in working with the
Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the geotechnical and
geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Subdivision. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering,
LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.


Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Preliminary Plat
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

         1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                   and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                   construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                   of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
         3.        That a final plat application is submitted for review and approval.
         4.        That all previous conditions of site plan approval remain in full force and are continually
                   satisfied to completion, to include all previous approved plans.
         5.        That the current CC&R’s are finalized and recorded with the Final Plat.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City
                   General Plan.
         2.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper
                   City Municipal Code.
         3.        The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development



The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                         App #SUBD-926-2019
Preliminary Subdivision                                 3
                   of the area.
         4.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
                   Draper City General Plan.
         2.        The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the
                   Draper City Municipal Code.
         3.        The proposed development does not conform to the general aesthetic and physical
                   development of the area.
         4.        The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the preliminary plat, as requested by Armando
Alvarez, for Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), application SUBD-926-2019, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the preliminary plat, requested by
Armando Alvarez, for Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), application SUBD-926-2019,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2020 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the preliminary plat, as requested by Armando Alvarez,
for Avery Townhomes (fka Victoria Woods Phase 2), application SUBD-926-2019, based on the
findings listed in the Staff Report dated February 4, 2020.




The Avery Townhomes (Victoria Woods Phase 2)                                        App #SUBD-926-2019
Preliminary Subdivision                                4
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                     DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.
   1. The applicant meets all requirements of DCMC 17-3 that pertain to this application and
       development.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Include date in under title and description of plat per DCMC 17-4-030(C).
   2. All outstanding items from June 14, 2019 approval memo from Planning department must still be
       satisfied.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.
The developer has submitted a geotechnical review produced by Taylor Geotechnical; report dated July 6,
2019 to review previous submitted reports from AGEC. Taylor Geotechnical reviewed the previous
documents submitted to ensure that the reports done by AGEC adequately addressed the geotechnical
engineering parameters required for the proposed project to ensure the public health, safety and welfare.
Taylor Geotechnical stated that the original geotechnical reports are still valid for this site and proposed
development.

Fire Division Review.
    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six (26)
        feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
        required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
        apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
        have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
        10%. Grades may be checked prior to building permits being issued.

    2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
       Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the issuance
       of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary
       Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any, and all permits could be revoked.

    3. No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by water
       purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements being received or
       delivered on building site.

    4. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
       plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
       their background.

    5. Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building permits being, issued. All
       lots to have lot number or address posted and legible.

Notes: Plan approval or review shall not, be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any
person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to persons or property caused
by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency conditions that occur in or on the building
property shall not hold the Draper City Fire Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
