NovusAGENDA
Planning Commission AGENDA Notice is hereby given that the Draper Planning Commission will hold a Business Meeting on Thursday, July 23, 2020, at 6:30 PM, in the 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in the Council Chambers.   The Agenda will be as follows: ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be held electronically Determination 2020-02, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Andrew Adams, Chair of the Draper City Planning Commission, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
·        Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
·        COVID-19 cases in Salt Lake County and Draper continue to increase at rates which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
·        It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with StatePhased Guidelines.
·        COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
·        The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.
Listen through our website -  https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email your comments to the project planner listed on the agenda item below     by Noon on the day of the meeting.  These will become part of the public record.
If you wish to speak during the Public Comment or Public Hearings portion of the meeting, please send a request for the Zoom Meeting ID to  the project planner listed on the agenda item below     by noon, on the day of the meeting.
1. Public Hearing: HBA Plaza at Draper Text Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, and Land Use Map Amendment Request (Legislative Action) On the request of Ross Ford, representing the Home Builders Association of Utah, for a Text Amendment to the 136 Center Commercial Special District (CSD-136) code, and to rezone 2.55 acres of property located at 38 West 13775 South from the M1 zone to the CSD-136 zone, and to amend the Land Use Map from Business/Light Manufacturing to the Commercial Special District designation. Applications TEXTMAP-991-2020, TEXTMAP-992-2020, TEXTMAP-993-2020. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.  2. Public Hearing; City Initiated Commercial Buffer Zone – Zoning Text Amendment Request (Legislative Action) A city initiated  text amendment to create a new zoning district called Commercial Buffer Zone (CBU).  The proposed zone will be located in Chapter 9-11 (Commercial Zones) of the Draper City Municipal Code.  Other related sections of Title 9 may also be amended as part of this proposal.  Application: TEXTMAP-1022-2020).  Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at (801) 576-6391 or maryann.pickering@draper.ut.us. 3. Adjournment Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds therefore within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determination. SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draper.ut.us , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.   Date Posted: July 16, 2020 Laura Oscarson, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.