                                       Development Review Committee
                                           1020 East Pioneer Road
                                             Draper, UT 84020
                                              February 20, 2020

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: February 27, 2020

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Senior Planner/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Re:       Geneva Rock Products II– Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, Text
          Amendment, and Development Agreement Request
          Application No.:  TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020, TEXTMAP-946-2020, and
                            DA-947-2020
          Applicant:        Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry and Associates
                            Inc.
          Project Location: 15547 S Minuteman Dr.
          Current Zoning:   A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimum) Zone
          Acreage:          91.26 Acres (Approximately 3,975,285.6 ft2)
          Request:          Request for a Land Use Map Amendment, Zoning Map Amendment, Text
                            Amendment, and a Development Agreement.


SUMMARY
The applications are requests for approval of a Land Use Map Amendment, a Zoning Map Amendment, a
Text Amendment, and a Development Agreement for approximately 91.26 acres (Subject Property)
located at approximately 15547 South Minuteman Dr. The applicant’s specific requests are outlined in
Exhibit K of the report. The requests are as follows:

         Request for a Land Use Map Amendment for 64.27 acres (Areas 1 and 2 Combined) from
          Residential Low/Medium Density to Open Space and Parks and for 26.99 acres (Area 4) from
          Residential Low/Medium Density to Industrial and Manufacturing.
         Request for a Zoning Map Amendment for 64.27 acres from A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot
          minimum) to OS (Open Space) (Areas 1 and 2 Combined) and for 26.99 acres (Area 4) from A5
          to M2 (Major Manufacturing).
         Request for a Text Amendment to allow Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction as permitted uses
          in the M2 zone.
         Area 3 is not the subject of the applications being heard by the Planning Commission. Area 3 is
          subject to a Development Agreement application that Geneva has simultaneously submitted with
          the applications being heard by the Planning Commission.

Exhibit B of this report is an aerial map of the Subject Property for reference. Areas 1, 2, 3, and 4 are
outlined in Exhibit H.


Geneva Rock Products                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                        1                     TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
A Development Agreement is included with this application; however, the Planning Commission does
not provide a recommendation to the Draper City Council on Development Agreements unless certain
criteria are met. Those criteria have not been met hence the Planning Commission does not provide a
recommendation. For your information, the Development Agreement covers the four areas as follows:

         1.       Area 1- Geneva will donate to the City approximately 43.33 acres to be used as public
                  open space. Geneva retains the right of reversion should the City use the property for
                  anything other than open space. This area is the front face of Steep Mountain.
         2.       Area 2- Geneva will preserve approximately 20.94 acres as private open space to remain
                  in Geneva's ownership. The entire acreage would count toward future development rights
                  calculations at such time as the rest of the Geneva property is developed. This area is the
                  back face of Steep Mountain.
         3.       Area 3 – Geneva will acknowledge that the future development of approximately 48.87
                  acres is likely to be commercial or residential and subject to City zoning and the Hillside
                  Sensitive Overlay zone standards.
         4.       Area 4- Approximately 26.99 acres of property is to be rezoned to M2 and mining would
                  be allowed on the property.

The Subject Property is part of a larger piece of property (Geneva Property) owned by Geneva Rock
Products which equals 402.16 acres in size, and a small 2.6 acre portion of property owned by Perry and
Associates, Inc. (Perry Property). The Geneva Property is shown as Exhibit E of this report.


BACKGROUND
The existing Geneva Rock Products mining operations were established prior to 1953 and prior to Draper
City incorporation in 1978.

In 2015 an application was made by Geneva Rock Products to rezone 189 acres of the Geneva Property to
manufacturing. That application was withdrawn by Geneva.

In 2016 Geneva Rock Products applied to determine the legal status of their operations and determine the
boundary of said operations. The 261.06 acres, as shown in Exhibit G, are existing operations and have
been found to be legal nonconforming and may continue, including into an area that is currently zoned
A5, but has historically been part of their mining operations. That determination was appealed and was
later upheld in the appeal process.

In 2018 Geneva made an application to rezone and amend the land use of a portion of the Geneva
Property, along with a text amendment and development agreement. These applications were heard by the
Planning Commission on August 23, 2018. The City Council heard the items at the September 12, 2018
meeting. The applications were withdrawn by Geneva Rock Products during the Council meeting. Exhibit
J of this report provides a comparison chart between the 2018 application and the current 2020
application.

The City of Draper has a legal obligation to review any application received and to process the
application in a manner that is consistent with state law and Draper City codes. During the City’s review
of Geneva’s requests, updated information has been provided to residents via various information
dissemination channels including the City’s website, social media, and direct email. Draper City will
continue to provide updated information throughout Geneva’s application process to ensure an open and
transparent process.

Further, all public comments submitted to Draper City via the City’s online public comment form as of
February 20, 2020 has been attached to this report for your review as Exhibit L. Comments posted on



Geneva Rock Products                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                        2                     TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
social media are not included in the official public comments.


ANALYSIS

   I. Current General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan designates the Subject
Property as Residential Low/Medium Density. The following is the description of this land use:




As the table outlines, the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimums), RA2
(Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimums), RH (Residential Hillside, 40,000 square foot
lot minimums), and MPC (Master Planned Community) zoning designations are identified by the General
Plan as preferred zoning classifications for the Residential Low/Medium Density land use designation.
The existing Land Use Map for the Subject Property and vicinity can be found in Exhibit C.

The Subject Property has been assigned the A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre lot minimums) zoning classification.
Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020(A)(1) outlines the zone purpose:




Geneva Rock Products                                              App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                      3                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
     The purpose of the A5 zone is to maintain the status of large tracts of agricultural land by allowing
     most commercial agricultural uses. Typical uses include farming, dairy, and cattle production.

The Subject Property abuts the M2 zone on the west, the OS zone on the north, and to the south, the PC
(Planned Community) zone in Lehi City and the Mining and Grazing 1 zone in Utah County. The existing
Zoning Map for the Subject Property and vicinity can be found in Exhibit D of the report.

II. Proposed Amendments

     A. Land Use Map Amendment. The applicant has requested the following modifications to Areas 1-
4:

         1.       Area 1 would amend the designation of approximately 43.33 acres from Residential
                  Low/Medium Density to Open Space and Parks.
         2.       Area 2 would amend the designation of approximately 20.94 acres from Residential
                  Low/Medium Density to Open Space and Parks.
         3.       Area 3 would continue to have the Residential Low/Medium Density designation.
         4.       Area 4 would amend the designation of approximately 26.99 acres from Residential
                  Low/Medium Density to Industrial and Manufacturing.

The General Plan descriptions for the proposed land uses are as follows:




Geneva Rock Products                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                        4                     TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
Areas 1-4 are all subject to the Hillside Sensitive Overlay Zone as outlined in DCMC Chapter 9-16. There
is no proposed change to this overlay. The General Plan description of the overlay is as follows:




Geneva Rock Products                                             App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                     5                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
Exhibit F depicts those properties subject to the overlay.

The General Plan does provide general goals and policies for open space and parks, with the majority of
the goals found within the Open Space Master Plan:

         1.       Support a regional open space network that celebrates Draper heritage and identity as a
                  rural, mountain community, and maintains the viability and connectedness of the natural
                  surroundings.
         2.       Preserve scenic qualities.
         3.       Preserve wildlife habitats.
         4.       Maintain trail heads and create a regional trail system.

The General Plan does not provide specific goals and policies for industrial and manufacturing uses
within the city. It does however provide general economic, environmental, and land use goals and
policies:

         1.       Limit airborn particulates by mitigating man-made disturbances.
         2.       Focus intense land uses along major transportation investment corridors.
         3.       Protect sensitive natural features from incompatible development and maintain the
                  integrity of natural systems.
         4.       Consider the visual impact of proposed development during the zoning process and
                  before granting development approvals.



Geneva Rock Products                                               App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                        6                   TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
         5.       Support a regional open space network that celebrates Draper heritage and identify as a
                  rural, mountain community, and maintains the viability and connectedness of the natural
                  surroundings.
         6.       Support the regional open space network using local, county, and regional plans as a
                  baseline to coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions’ open space systems, recreation
                  opportunities, storm water drainage corridors, sensitive wildlife habitat and migration
                  routes, and the like.
         7.       Maintain the natural integrity of open space areas by ensuring that development is
                  sensitively placed and designated contiguously with existing developed areas and
                  neighborhoods.
         8.       Protect life and property by prohibiting development on slopes greater than 30 percent.

    B. Zoning Map Amendment. The applicant is requesting to rezone three out of the four areas, as
follows:

         1.       Area 1 would rezone approximately 43.33 acres from A5 to OS. This area makes up the
                  front face of Steep Mountain.
         2.       Area 2 would rezone approximately 20.94 acres from A5 to OS. This area makes up the
                  back face of Steep Mountain.
         3.       Area 3 will remain in the A5 zone.
         4.       Area 4 would rezone approximately 26.99 acres from A5 to M2.

The purpose of the OS zone, as proposed for Area’s 1 and 2, is outlined in DCMC Section 9-8-020(D)(2):

    The purpose of the OS zone is to recognize on the official zoning map areas which are open and
    generally undevelopable due to their sensitive environmental nature and/or the unavailability of
    adequate public facilities, such as conservation areas and national forest land.

The purpose of the M2 zone, as proposed for Area 4, is outlined in DCMC Section 9-8-020(E)(2):

    The purpose of the M2 zone is to provide areas where uses involving industrial processes and natural
    resource extraction may be permitted without negatively impacting other areas of the city, especially
    when undertaken on a large scale. To assure compatibility with uses in other adjacent zones, most
    manufacturing operations are allowed only as conditional uses.

    C. Text Amendment. The proposed Text Amendment, Exhibit I, changes the table in DCMC Section
9-13-080 and makes Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction uses Permitted rather than Conditional. Per
DCMC Section 9-3-040 the definition of such uses are:

         BASIC INDUSTRY: An establishment engaged in basic processing and manufacturing of
         materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials; or a use engaged in
         manufacturing processes utilizing flammable or explosive materials; or manufacturing processes
         which potentially involve hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions. Typical uses
         include chemical manufacturing and warehousing, dry ice manufacturing, fat rendering plants,
         fertilizer manufacturing, fireworks and explosives manufacturing and warehousing, petroleum
         refineries, pulp processing and paper products manufacturing, radioactive materials manufacture
         or use, slaughterhouses, steelworks and tanneries.

         MINERAL EXTRACTION: Removal of sand, gravel, dirt, or other materials by grading or
         excavating.



Geneva Rock Products                                               App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                       7                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
The proposed text will also create a footnote for the table stating Mineral Extraction is a permitted use
with an existing DOGM permit.

         9-13-080: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

         TABLE 9-13-1
         PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL
         USES ALLOWED IN MANUFACTURING ZONES

                                                               Zones

                              Use                         M1            M2

               Manufacturing uses:

                            Basic industry                NP             CP

                            Mineral extraction            NP            C P1


         Notes:
         1. Permitted use with existing Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining permit.

Criteria for Approval.

     A. Zoning Map and Text Amendments: The criteria for review and approval of a Zoning Map
Amendment and Text Amendment is found in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. A decision to amend
the text of the Land Use and Development Code or the zoning map is a matter committed to the
legislative discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making
an amendment the City Council should consider the following factors:

        1. Zoning Map Amendments:
           a.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                City’s General Plan;
           b.   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing
                development in the vicinity of the subject property;
           c.   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone.
           d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent property;
                and
           e.   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including
                but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection,
                schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water and refuse
                collection.

        2. Text Amendments:
           a.    Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                 City’s General Plan;
           b.    Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                 ordinance;
           c.    Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                 there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;


Geneva Rock Products                                                App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                        8                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
              d.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                   title or the general plan;
              e.   Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                   determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                   overall community benefit; and
              f.   The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                   practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

     B. Land Use Map Amendment: While there is no specific criteria for approval of an amendment to
the Land Use Map, which has been adopted as part of the Draper City’s General Plan, there is a purpose
statement for what the General Plan shall address as found in DCMC Section 9-2-020(B):

              The purpose of the general plan is to provide the city with a comprehensive, long range plan
              for its present and future needs regarding efficient and managed growth and development of
              land within the city. As outlined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-405 et seq., as
              amended, the general plan, and any amendments thereto, are intended to be an advisory guide
              for land use decisions within the city excepting those public uses in Utah Code Annotated
              section 10-9a-406, as amended.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Land
Use Map Amendment, the Zoning Map Amendment, and the Text Amendment submission. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Land Use Map Amendment, the Zoning Map Amendment,
and the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Land Use Map
Amendment, the Zoning Map Amendment, and the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this
division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Land Use Map
Amendment, the Zoning Map Amendment, and the Text Amendment submission. The application is
ready for consideration by the Planning Commission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

         1.        That the proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the


Geneva Rock Products                                                 App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                         9                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
                  Draper City General Plan.
         2.       The proposed amendments comply with the findings in Section 9-5-060(E) of the
                  DCMC.
         3.       The proposed amendments are supported by the purpose statement in DCMC Section 9-
                  2-020(B).
         4.       The provision of public open space offered in the Development Agreement offsets the
                  concern of allowing for the expansion of existing mining operations.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

         1.       The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  Draper City General Plan.
         2.       The M2 zoning designation contemplates uses that are inappropriate for an area that is
                  becoming more dominated by residential uses.
         3.       The proposed amendments are not harmonious with the overall character of existing
                  development in the vicinity of the Subject Property due to the additional types of uses
                  that would be allowed.
         4.       The proposed amendments are not supported by the purpose statement found in DCMC
                  Section 9-2-020(B).


MODEL MOTIONS

Land Use Map Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Land Use Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry
Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s land use designation to Open Space and Parks and
Industrial and Manufacturing, application TEXTMAP-944-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated February 20, 2020.

Sample Motion for Approval with Modifications – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for a Land Use Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock
Products and Perry Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s land use designation to Open Space
and Parks and Industrial and Manufacturing, application TEXTMAP-944-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Land Use Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry
Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s land use designation to Open Space and Parks and
Industrial and Manufacturing, application TEXTMAP-944-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated February 20, 2020.


Zoning Map Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Zoning Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry
Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s zoning designation to OS (Open Space) and M2 (Major



Geneva Rock Products                                                App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                       10                    TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
Manufacturing), application TEXTMAP-945-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated February 20, 2020.

Sample Motion for Approval with Modifications – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for a Zoning Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock
Products and Perry Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s zoning designation to OS (Open
Space) and M2 (Major Manufacturing), application TEXTMAP-945-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Zoning Map Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry
Associates Inc. to amend the Subject Property’s zoning designation to OS (Open Space) and M2 (Major
Manufacturing), application TEXTMAP-945-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
February 20, 2020.


Text Amendment:
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
a Text Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry Associates
Inc. to amend the M2 zone’s allowed uses by making Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction permitted
uses, application TEXTMAP-946-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff report dated February 20, 2020.

Sample Motion for Approval with Modifications – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to
the City Council for a Text Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products
and Perry Associates Inc. to amend the M2 zone’s allowed uses by making Basic Industry and Mineral
Extraction permitted uses, application TEXTMAP-946-2020, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 20, 2020 and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for a
Text Amendment, as request by Dave Kallas, representing Geneva Rock Products and Perry Associates
Inc. to amend the M2 zone’s allowed uses by making Basic Industry and Mineral Extraction permitted
uses, application TEXTMAP-946-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated February
20, 2020.




Geneva Rock Products                                            App. # TEXTMAP-944-2020, TEXTMAP-945-2020,
Land Use Map, Zoning Map, Text                      11                 TEXTMAP-946-202, & DA-947-2020
Amendment, & Development Agreement Request
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The provision of public open space, and the creation of additional private open space,
               will protect the front and back face of Steep Mountain. Steep Mountain is a major
               viewshed within the city.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      The Draper City Fire Department has no issues at this time.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      Application is ready for consideration by the Planning Commission.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
   EXHIBIT E
GENEVA PROPERTY
            EXHIBIT F
HILLSIDE SENSITIVE OVERLAY ZONE
          EXHIBIT G
LEGAL NONCONFORMING AREA MAP
 EXHIBIT H
MASTER PLAN
                                           EXHIBIT I
                                    TEXT AMENDMENT DRAFT


9-13-080: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

TABLE 9-13-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL
USES ALLOWED IN MANUFACTURING ZONES

                                Zones

              Use             M1     M2

     Manufacturing uses:

        Basic industry        NP      CP

        Mineral extraction    NP     C P1


Notes:
1. Permitted use with existing Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining permit.
         EXHIBIT J
REQUEST COMPARISON CHART
        EXHIBIT K
APPLICANT REQUEST LETTERS
    EXHIBIT L
PUBLIC COMMENTS
