                                         ORDINANCE NO. 1437

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE
         DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO GENERAL REGULATIONS
         IN CODE SECTIONS 9-3-040, 9-8-010, 9-8-020, 9-10-075, 9-17C-030, 9-25-060, 9-26-
         080, 9-26-090, 9-32-030, 9-34-050, AND 17-5-020.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts and subdivision standards; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

        WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code of the Draper
City Municipal Code has been established to provide regulations concerning general developments and
subdivisions within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code and
Land Development Code to guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code regarding updates to general
standards; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development
Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

    Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that the
    proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code and Land Development
    Code in regards to updates to general standards: 1. The proposed amendments are consistent with
    goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the
    specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance. 3. The proposed amendments are appropriate
    given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
    ordinance. 4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of
    this title or the general plan. 5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been
    evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
    overall community benefit. 6. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional
    practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

        Section 2.     Revision. The Land Use and Development Code and Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.


Ordinance No. 1437                                    1                                     City Initiated 2020 Q1
                                                                                                 Text Amendment
         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE ______ DAY OF ________, 2020.

                                                           DRAPER CITY


                                                           _____________________________
                                                           Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder



 VOTE TAKEN:                                                 YES                       NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1437                                    2                                      City Initiated 2020 Q1
                                                                                                  Text Amendment
                                          EXHIBIT A

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

ASSEMBLY AND REPAIR, LIMITED: A business where products are processed, fabricated,
assembled, repaired, or packaged within the home. Typical uses may include computer assembly
or repair, small appliance repair, packaging, wholesale, or fabrication of items. Assembly,
fabrication, and repair is intended to be small-scale in nature where items are produced one at a
time in small quantities or on a made-to-order basis, and does not include mass production of
goods. Products brought to or from the home shall be small enough to be carried by one
individual. Auto and small engine repair is not allowed. The business shall not create noise, odor,
vibration, or other impacts discernible outside of the home. Anything that uses a material, a
mixture of materials, or a quantity of materials that could be classified by the fire marshal or
building official as dangerous or hazardous will not be allowed.


9-8-010: ZONE ESTABLISHMENT:
C.     Commercial zones:
         CN           Neighborhood commercial
         CC           Community commercial
         CR           Regional commercial
         CG           General commercial
         CI           Interchange commercial
         CBP          Business/manufacturing park
         CO1          Professional office
         CO2          Professional office
         O-R          Office residential
         TC           Town center
         DC           Destination commercial
         CS           Commercial services
         MARF         Major freeway arterial frontage


9-8-020: ZONE PURPOSES:
C.     Commercial Zones: Commercial zones are established to provide areas where a
       combination of business, commercial, entertainment, office, and related activities may be
       established, maintained and protected. Commercial zones are intended to provide a
       suitable environment for those commercial and service uses which are vital to the
       economic base of the city.
       11.     The Major Freeway Arterial Frontage zone is located at approximately 14875
               South Minuteman Drive bordered by Minuteman Drive and Marion Vista.
               Railroad lines abut the property on the south. The size, unusual shape and unique
               location of the property allows for a master planned project with a potential for
               office, commercial, multiple-family dwellings, and other uses. The property has
               immediate proximity to major transportation corridors such as Interstate-15
               Frontage Road (Minuteman Drive) and almost direct access to I-15 at the 14600
               South interchange. The property has a distinct topography and exposure to
               freeway traffic and is located away from single-family residential neighborhoods.


9-10-075: ALLOWED DRIVEWAYS:
Any legally created parcel in a residential zone shall be allowed at least one driveway access to a
public street. The first or primary driveway access shall be approved as part of the site plan
review associated with the issuance of a building permit. Additional drive approaches may be
approved for parcels in the RA1, RA2, R3, R4, R5 and RH Zones that meet the following
criteria:

A. Standards:
    1. The width of the primary driveway shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in width and shall be
    at least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.

   2. If a residential lot has two (2) frontages and one of those frontages is located on a collector
   or arterial street, the primary driveway shall be located on the residential street only. No
   driveway access will be permitted onto the collector or arterial street.

   3. On a residential lot where the only access from the lot is to a collector or arterial street, a
   second curb cut may be permitted to create a horseshoe or half-circular driveway (see figure
   1(b) of this section).

   4. All driveways shall be located a minimum forty feet (40') from a street intersection, as
   measured from back of sidewalk to edge of driveway.

B. Secondary Driveway: A secondary driveway may be allowed under the following conditions:
    1. The width of the secondary driveway shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') and shall be at
    least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.

   2. Spacing between the primary driveway and the secondary driveway shall be a minimum
   ten feet (10'), not including flares (see figure 1 of this section).

   3. Lot frontage shall be a minimum sixty feet (60').

   4. Secondary driveway must be no closer than five feet (5') from the adjacent property line,
   as measured from property line to edge of driveway (see figure 1 of this section).

C. Corner Lots: A secondary driveway may be allowed under the following conditions:
   1. Lot frontage on the side of the lot that contains the secondary driveway is sixty feet (60')
   or greater.

   2. The secondary driveway is located a minimum forty feet (40') from the street intersection,
   as measured from back of sidewalk to edge of driveway (see figure 1(c) of this section).

   3. The secondary driveway does not access a collector or arterial street (see figure 1(d) of this
   section).

   4. The secondary driveway does not exceed twenty four feet (24') in width and shall be at
   least twenty feet (20’) in depth excluding sidewalks.


9-17C-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

6. Lighting: All public street lighting shall meet Draper City streetlight standards and comply
with Rocky Mountain Power requirements. be acorn style luminary, town and country, with a
decorative pole to meet Utah Power standards. Property owners shall determine the light series
and schedule.


9-25-060: NUMBER AND TYPE OF PARKING SPACES:




F. Tandem Parking Spaces: Tandem parking spaces shall count toward required parking as only
    a single parking space per pairing. Both spaces in a tandem pairing may be counted toward
    required parking in the following instances:

     1. Multi-family dwellings with garages of at least the minimum dimensions of standard
        parking spaces may count towards resident parking requirements but shall not count
        towards guest parking requirements; or

     2. Valet parking services.


9-26-080: TEMPORARY SIGNAGE
B. Special Events Signs: Temporary signs for events that have been issued a special events
    permit may be erected as allowed in this subsection.
 1. Such signs shall be permitted in all zones following application for and approval of a
    temporary signage permit.

 2. Such signs are subject to the following requirements:

     a. Such signs may be maintained posted for a period not to exceed thirty twenty one (21)
         (30) days, including days after the event.
     b. Special Eevent Ssigns shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size, and shall not
         have more than two (2) faces, and must be securely attached to the ground by posts with a
         stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the sign.
     c. Fifty (50) Up to thirty five (35) signs are allowed per event.
     d. Placement of such signs on public property, exclusive of rights of way is strongly
         encouraged.
     ed. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be required as a
         part of an application for a temporary signage permit.
      e. Special Event Signs for the same special event shall be placed no less than seventy (70)
         yards apart along a street.
      f. Special Event Signs may be placed no more than one time in six months for the same
         event.
      g. Special Event Signs shall not be placed in areas designated by Draper City as “not
         permissible” on specific Draper City owned property.


9-26-090: AREAS OF SPECIAL DESIGNATION:
In an effort to complement and enhance the experience and aesthetics of certain areas of the
community, these areas have been identified to have unique signage allowances. The signage
allowances outlined for these special districts shall not be construed as cumulative to the
allowable signage identified elsewhere in this chapter, but rather the exclusive signage allowable
within the areas identified herein.

B.     Freeway Frontage Road: The intent of this subsection is that the areas of the community
       directly oriented and related to the I-15 freeway warrant specialized standards for signage
       where those properties possess limited and unique visibility constraints due to higher
       speeds of traffic and differences in elevation between businesses and passersby. Any
       freestanding business or group of businesses shall be allowed the signs described in this
       subsection. In addition to subsections B1a and B1b of this section, to qualify for such
       signs the business or group of businesses, if located on more than one lot or parcel, must
       have a common driveway and unrestricted cross access between the adjoining lots or
       parcels.
       2. Businesses or a group of businesses within a single development which meet the
           qualifications of subsection B1 of this section and would otherwise qualify for a
           tower sign in accordance with Section 9-26-070(A)(3) may be allowed one of the sign
           types in this subsection. Businesses located within Freeway Frontage Zones A, B, C,
           and D may have such sign, providing the property on which they are located has a
           minimum two and one-half (2.5) acres and a minimum four hundred (400) linear feet
     of lot frontage.

         a.      One monolithic sign, where:
                 (1)   The maximum height shall be forty feet (40') in the freeway
                       frontage road designated area A; the maximum height shall be
                       thirty feet (30') in the freeway frontage road designated area B; the
                       maximum height shall be seventy feet (70') in the freeway frontage
                       road designated area C;
                 (2)   The ratio of width to height does not exceed 1:4.5;
                 (3)   The sign is internally lit; and
                 (4)   The sign face area shall not exceed three hundred sixty (360)
                       square feet, nor two hundred (200) square feet measured around
                       the lettered copy within the sign face; or

         b.      One tower sign where:
                 (1)   The maximum height shall be seventy feet (70') in the freeway
                       frontage road designated area C; the maximum height shall be
                       forty feet (40') in the freeway frontage road designated area A; the
                       maximum height shall be thirty feet (30') in the freeway frontage
                       road designated area B; the maximum height shall be sixty five
                       feet (65') in the freeway frontage road designated area D;
                 (2)   The tower sign's structural support shall be a minimum width of
                       five feet (5') or a minimum of thirty six inches (36") each for signs
                       with two (2) or more structural supports located near the outside
                       width dimensions of the sign;
                 (3)   The structural supports of the tower sign shall be finished
                       architecturally with detailed masonry products exclusive of
                       concrete masonry units, brick, or stone, which shall be
                       architecturally and aesthetically designed to match the building or
                       development to which it is associated;
                 (4)   The tower sign shall be finished with architectural or decorative
                       elements that serve to relate the sign to the building or
                       development to which it is associated; and
                 (5)   The sign area shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in
                       the freeway frontage road designated area C; the sign area shall not
                       exceed two hundred (200) square feet in the freeway frontage road
                       designated area A; the sign area shall not exceed one hundred
                       (100) square feet in the freeway frontage road designated area B.
                       The sign area for area D shall not exceed four hundred fifty (450)
                       square feet, which may include electronic sign area.

3.       Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances outlined within this
         subsection and which have frontage on two (2) public rights-of-way shall be
         allowed one monument sign along the nonfreeway frontage street.

4.       Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed wall
               signs outlined in subsection 9-26-070A1 of this chapter.

       5.      Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed
               banner signs not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet. All other
               provisions outlined in subsection 9-26-080D of this chapter regarding banner
               signs shall apply.

       6.      Businesses or a group of businesses within a single development which meet the
               qualifications of subsection B1 of this section, which are located in the CBP, CR,
               CI, CC or MARF Zones, and which have two and one-half (2.5) acres and have a
               minimum of four hundred (400) linear feet of lot frontage shall be allowed one
               electronic message sign. Such signs shall be subject to the provisions of
               subsection D1 of this section.

       7.      Signage outlined in subsections 9-26-070A4, A5, A6, and A7 of this chapter shall
               be allowed as outlined in those subsections.

       8.      Other signs: Signage allowable under this section and section 9-26-100 of this
               chapter shall be allowed with the added requirements of this subsection.


9-32-030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
C. Building Placement And Orientation: Multiple-family projects shall have a strong relationship
    to the public realm that will enhance the safety and efficiency of the project while improving
    the character of the neighborhood.

   2. Setbacks for multiple-family structures shall be within the range of five feet (5’) to twenty
   feet (20') for living spaces and twenty feet (20’) for garages as measured from the edge of the
   public or private right of way (ROW). The edge of the public or private right of way can be
   defined as the back of the sidewalk and the setback is measured from the building facade.
   Horizontal variation in setback between units shall be required.
      a. Setbacks should be established relative to existing setbacks in the vicinity.
      b. For projects with front loading garages and driveways, the garage door shall be set back
      at least twenty feet (20') from the ROW or alley and shall include a to allow for tandem
      driveway parking with a depth of at least twenty feet (20’) excluding sidewalks.
      c. The setback range shall be fifteen feet (15') to thirty feet (30') from the ROW when:
          (1) The proposed structure is three (3) or more stories.
          (2) The project is adjacent to an existing or proposed collector street as shown on the
          master transportation plan.
      d. Development on corner lots shall consider the provisions of subsection 9-27-080C of
      this title in which the sightline at an intersection shall not be obstructed.
   3. Multiple-family projects with frontage on a public street shall orient units toward the
   public street.
      a. Multiple-family projects shall promote an active street frontage on all public streets.
      The creation of a second frontage road or courtyard area on the street frontage, in which
      units may be oriented toward, can also be an acceptable option for projects located on
      collector roads.
      b. Carports shall be prohibited adjacent to the public right of way.
   5. Resident parking accommodations are encouraged to be located behind multiple-family
   structures. This includes rear loaded garages with alleyways, auto courtyards and parking
   lots.
      a. Alley accessways shall be a minimum of twenty-six feet (26’) wide and shall comply
      with all fire code width standards as may be required in the fire code adopted by the State
      of Utah and Draper City should accommodate a width of at least twelve feet (12') from
      the midline of the ROW to the garage door in order to permit a feasible vehicle turning
      radius for garage access.
   6. Required guest parking shall be evenly distributed throughout multiple-family projects and
   easily accessible.
   7. Driveway and garage parking shall not be included in the development’s guest parking
   count requirement.
   8.7. On street parking, parallel or diagonal, is encouraged to be provided on private streets as
   a substantial portion of the project's parking requirement. This is meant to create flexible
   parking spaces for units in which residents may have more or less vehicles than what is
   required for each unit.
   9. 8. Landscaping strips in the middle of driveways (between tire lines) should be used to
   break up expanses of impervious surface.
   10. 9. Parking areas shall be broken into smaller parking clusters of twelve (12) spaces or
   less, using landscaping and pathways.


9-34-050: CONDITIONAL USE HOME OCCUPATIONS:

The following home occupations may also be established in any agricultural, residential,
commercial zone subject to the use table regulations of applicable zones, subject to the
development standards listed in section 9-34-040 of this chapter, and subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit pursuant to the requirements of section 9-5-080 of this title. Uses listed in
this section may also necessitate an additional conditional use permit subject to section 9-34-
060 of this chapter:

Assembly and repair, limited.
Cottage business.
Daycare, limited.
Grooming service. Conditions:
  A. Animal being groomed must be current on the following vaccinations: rabies, parvovirus,
     distemper, and kennel cough.
   B. Facility shall be subject to periodic inspection by city staff.
   C. Animal being groomed shall be kept indoors the whole time in a controlled environment.
   D. Up to two (2) animals shall be allowed on the premises at a time for grooming purposes.
Personal care service.
Personal instruction service.
Preschool, limited.


17-5-020 LOTS:
K. Building Envelopes: Building envelopes shall be required to be shown on all final plats
designating the buildable area on each lot. Building envelopes shall take into account minimum
setback requirements, utility and access easements, physical constraints, such as steep slopes,
waterways, wetlands, faults, and any other features deemed significant by the Zoning
Administrator or Planning Commission. The accurate identification of the building envelope in
the field is the responsibility of the developer. A certificate of survey, prepared by a registered
land surveyor, licensed in the State of Utah, may be required by the Zoning Administrator.
