                                          Development Review Committee
                                              1020 East Pioneer Road
                                                Draper, UT 84020
                                                    11/2/2020

To:                   Draper City Planning Commission
                      Business Date: November 12, 2020

From:                 Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us

Re:        City Initiated Notice of Continued Item – Text Amendment Request
           Application No.:     TEXTMAP-1090-2020
           Applicant:           Draper City
           Project Location:    City Wide
           Current Zoning:      City Wide
           Acreage:             City Wide
           Request:             Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify Draper City
                                Municipal Code Sections 9-5-045 and 17-1-085 in order to modify noticing
                                requirements for items continued after the public hearing has been closed.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Sections 9-5-045 and 17-1-085. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved
clarifying that a new notice is not required to be provided for items that are continued to future meetings
after the public hearing has been closed.


ANALYSIS
The DCMC requires that new notice be sent for all applications that are continued to a future meeting.
When this continuation occurs after the public hearing has been closed for an agenda item, the subsequent
notice provided has been for an action item at a public meeting with no public comment being taken.
This has led to confusion and concern with both applicants and the public. The proposed ordinance
changes seek to reduce potential conflict by not requiring notice to be mailed or posted on the property for
items on the meeting agenda where new public comment will not be taken. Public notice of the continued
item would be on the meeting agenda only.

The proposed revisions to the text are minimal and simply state that no additional notice shall be required
when an item is continued as an action item and the public hearing has been closed.

Exhibit B outlines the proposed changes to DCMC Sections 9-5-045(K) and 17-1-085(D). Additions to
the text are shown in blue, and those in black represent language that is unchanged.




City Initiated Notice of Continued Item                                              App. # TEXTMAP-1090-2020
Text Amendment Request                              1
CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL
The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment request is found in DCMC Section 9-
5-060(E). This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

Text Amendment 9-5-060(E)

           2. Text Amendments:
               a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                  city's general plan;
               b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                  ordinance;
               c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                  there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
               d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                  title or the general plan;
               e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                  determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                  overall community benefit; and
               f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                  practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or
denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval are as follows:

           1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan;
           2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
           3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
           4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
              or the general plan;
           5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to
              be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
              benefit; and




City Initiated Notice of Continued Item                                               App. # TEXTMAP-1090-2020
Text Amendment Request                             2
           6. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban
              planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial are as follows:

           1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
              general plan;
           2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
              ordinance;
           3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
              not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
           4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the
              general plan;
           5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be
              detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit;
              and
           6. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban
              planning, design, and engineering practices.


MODEL MOTIONS
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment , as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text
Amendment application TEXTMAP-1090-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
November 2, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Notice of Continued
Item Text Amendment application TEXTMAP-1090-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff
Report dated November 2, 2020, and as modified by the findings below:

           1. List any additional findings …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment , as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text
Amendment application TEXTMAP-1090-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
November 2, 2020.




City Initiated Notice of Continued Item                                                App. # TEXTMAP-1090-2020
Text Amendment Request                             3
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The proposed modifications will help to reduce confusion among the public.
                                          EXHIBIT B
                                      LEGISLATIVE DRAFT


9-5-045: NOTICING:

K. Notice For Continued Items: When an application requiring notice under this section is continued to a
future meeting date, including when a specific date is listed in the continuation, a new notice shall be
provided as outlined in this section. No additional notice shall be required when an item is continued as
an action item and the public hearing has been closed.


17-1-085: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:

D. Notice For Continued Items: When an application requiring notice under this section is continued to a
future meeting date, including when a specific date is listed in the continuation, a new notice shall be
provided as outlined in this section. No additional notice shall be required when an item is continued as
an action item and the public hearing has been closed.
