                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                           Draper, UT 84020
                                            August 25, 2020

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: September 3, 2020

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draper.ut.us

Re:      City Initiated Flag Lot– Text Amendment Request
         Application No.:     TEXTMAP 1049-2020
         Applicant:           Draper City
         Project Location:    City Wide
         Current Zoning:      City Wide
         Acreage:             City Wide
         Request:             Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify Draper City
                              Municipal Code Section 9-27-090 in order to modify requirements for the
                              creation of Flag Lots within the city.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
9-27-090, Flag Lots.

On April 7, 2020 the City Council passed Ordinance No. 14-27, a temporary land use regulation, which
prohibits new development applications proposing to erect, construct, reconstruct or alter any structure on
a flag lot or proposing to subdivide land to create a flag lot. The temporary land use regulation was
enacted after members of the City Council expressed sentiment that the current development standards
regarding flag lots do not meet the goals and objectives of the zoning ordinance in that the current code
does not adequately address the burden placed on existing residents surrounding a flag lot and approving
new development on flag lots will only exacerbate the negative impacts of flag lots on existing residents.
The temporary land use regulation is set to expire on October 7, 2020, or earlier, after public hearings are
held and amended provisions are presented to the Planning Commission and the City Council for review
and adoption.


ANALYSIS
Extensive revisions to the DCMC 9-27-090 Flag Lot requirements are being proposed, including
changing the standards for when a flag lot is allowed. This report analyzes those proposed changes, a full
copy of which can be found in Exhibit B.
In that exhibit the changes in blue are new additions to the text, the changes in red are deletions to the
text, and those in black represent language that is unchanged.




City Initiated Flag Lot                                                              App. # TEXTMAP 1049-2020
Text Amendment Request                                1
A chart comparing the current ordinance to the proposed ordinance, including an explanation for the
changes is included as Exhibit C.

CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL
The criteria for review, and potential approval, of a Text Amendment request is found in DCMC 9-5-
060(E)(2). This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:


          2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the
                city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
                ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
                there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this
                title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an
                overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


REVIEWS
Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text Amendment
submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances. Comments
from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or
denial, as listed within the staff report.




City Initiated Flag Lot                                                            App. # TEXTMAP 1049-2020
Text Amendment Request                              2
The findings for approval as are follows:

         1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
            general plan;
         2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
         3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is
            sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4. The proposed amendments will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title
            or the general plan;
         5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined not to
            be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community
            benefit; and
         6. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban
            planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's
            general plan;
         2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning
            ordinance;
         3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is
            not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
         4. The proposed amendments will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the
            general plan;
         5. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be
            detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit;
            and
         6. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban
            planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment , as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment
application TEXTMAP-1049-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 25,
2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Flag Lot Text
Amendment application TEXTMAP-1049-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated
August 25, 2020, and as modified by the findings below:

         1. List any additional findings …

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment , as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated Flag Lot Text Amendment
application TEXTMAP-1049-2020, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated August 25,
2020.



City Initiated Flag Lot                                                              App. # TEXTMAP 1049-2020
Text Amendment Request                               3
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1. The proposed modifications will limit potential negative impacts Flag Lots may have on
          existing neighborhoods.
       2. The proposed modifications will eliminate concerns that have arisen during the application of
          the current code.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1. The Engineering and Public Works Division have reviewed the proposed language and their
          comments and suggestions have been incorporated into the legislative text.


Fire Division Review.

       2. The Fire Marshall has reviewed the proposed language and his comments and suggestions
          have been incorporated into the legislative text.

Legal Division Review.

       1. Legal Counsel has reviewed the proposed language and their comments and suggestions have
          been incorporated into the legislative text.
       2. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
                                            EXHIBIT B
                                        LEGISLATIVE DRAFT

9-27-090: FLAG LOTS:
Flag lots for single-family residences may be allowed to accommodate the development of property that
otherwise could not reasonably be developed under the regulations contained in this title or other titles
adopted by the city. The primary purpose of this section is not to make development of property easier
and more profitable. Rather, it is to serve as a last resort for property which may not otherwise be
reasonably developed to outline the regulations that a flag lot must adhere to.
A. Factors: When property is subdivided, flag lots shall not be approved by right but may only be
   allowed after considering under the following circumstances:
        1.      More than two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs shall be avoided;
        2.1.    Whether When development of the property on a private lane in question under normal
                city utilizing existing zoning and subdivision regulations is reasonable and practical not
                possible; and
        2.      As a lot split or within subdivisions of fewer than 10 lots;
        3.      Where Ccreation of a flag lot should does not foreclose the possibility of future
                development of other large interior parcels that are not would be developable unless if a
                street is were extended to them across other adjacent properties subject to the street
                connection requirements found within section 17-5-030 (A); and
        4.      The flag lot does not have frontage on a classified street as defined by and illustrated in
                the Draper City Master Transportation Plan.
B. Development Standards: When flag lots are permitted, they shall be subject to the following
   conditions:
        1.      A flag lot shall be comprised of a narrow staff portion that is contiguous with a wide flag
                portion.
        2.      The staff portion of the lot shall front on and be contiguous to a local street, whether
                public or private.
        3.      Two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs are prohibited.
        4.      The minimum width of the staff portion at any point shall be twenty feet (20') thirty feet
                (30’) comprised of a minimum of twenty feet (20’) of paved access width and five feet
                (5’) of landscaping located on each side of the pavement. However, a Ggreater staff
                width for lots within the sensitive lands overlay zone may be required by the fire marshal
                based on the access width requirements of the International Fire Code (IFC) or where
                required by the fire code.
        5.      The maximum length of the staff shall be five hundred feet (500') as measured from the
                street right of way line to the beginning of the flag portion of the lot. The flag portion of
                the lot shall begin at the property line or line segments which define the minimum front
                yard depth per the minimum listed setbacks for main buildings.
        6.      The driveway access within the staff shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a
                minimum width of twenty feet (20’). Design of the driveway shall provide a manner for
        controlling drainage water acceptable to the city engineer. The load bearing capacity of
        the driveway may be required to be designed to support the weight of fire and emergency
        vehicles as required by the fire marshal and city engineer.
7.      The maximum grade of the staff shall not exceed twelve ten percent (12%) (10%) in the
        direction of intended traffic flow on the staff. The staff portion of the lot shall generally
        follow property contours except in the Hillside Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone where the
        maximum grade shall not exceed twelve percent (12%).
8.      For lots where the staff portion is over one-hundred fifty feet (150’) in length, sufficient
        turnaround space for emergency vehicles shall be provided and an easement for access by
        emergency vehicles will be required. The fire marshal shall review and approve the
        design and location.
9.      No building or structure shall be located within the staff portion of a flag lot.
3.10.   The size of the flag portion of the lot shall conform to be greater than or equal to 1.25
        times the minimum lot size requirement of the zone in which the lot is located, but in no
        case be less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet (15,000 ft²). Sufficient turnaround
        space for emergency vehicles shall be provided. The staff portion of the lot shall not be
        included in this minimum lot size calculation.
4.      No building or structure shall be located within the staff portion of a flag lot.
5.11.   The front yard of a flag lot shall be on the side of the flag portion which connects to the
        staff. Regardless of the zone, the minimum front yard setback shall be twenty five feet
        (25') and all other setbacks for main buildings shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20').
        Setbacks for all main buildings shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from all
        property lines for all flag lots less than or equal to twenty thousand square feet (20,000
        ft²) in size, and thirty feet (30’) for all flag lots greater than twenty thousand square feet
        (20,000 ft²) in size. Calculated lot sizes for this section do not include the staff portion of
        the lot.
12.     All accessory buildings and structures shall follow the regulations contained in section 9-
        10-040 except that accessory buildings and structures over two hundred square feet (200
        ft²) in size can be built no closer than fifteen feet (15’) to a neighboring property line.
13.     Landscaping shall be installed within the staff portion of the lot along each side of the
        access driveway pavement. Landscaping shall include a mix of live plant materials with
        vertical growth characteristics such as perennial grasses, shrubs, and small to medium
        sized trees. Xeriscaping with native and drought tolerant plants is encouraged.
6.14.   Screen fencing may be required to be erected around the staff and flag portions of the lot.
        Fencing and landscaping shall comply with the limitations related to view obstructions
        listed in 9-27-080. Fencing along or around the staff portion shall not exceed three feet
        (3’) in height when abutting the front yard of an adjacent lot or parcel.
7.15.   Fire hydrants shall be provided to serve the flag lot as required by the Utah state adopted
        fire code International Fire Code (IFC). Any fire hydrants located in the public rights of
        way shall be dedicated to the water provider for access to and maintenance of the
        hydrant. The fire chief shall review proposed flag lots to ensure adequate space and site
        configuration for turnaround of emergency vehicles.
       8.      All driveways located in the staff portion of the lot shall be paved within one hundred
               feet (100') of any preexisting house on a neighboring parcel.
       9.      Upon review, the city may require installation of curb, gutter and other drainage control
               measures in the staff portion of a flag lot to prevent runoff from entering neighboring
               properties.
       16.     The maximum height of main buildings on flag lots is limited to 2 stories and a maximum
               of thirty feet (30’).
       17.     Total lot coverage of flag lots is limited to no more than 35% of the area contained within
               the flag portion of the lot.
       10.18. Clear address signage must be installed and maintained at the street. , including notice
              that the driveway is a private right of way.
       11.19. When the staff of a flag lot exceeds the minimum width requirement of twenty feet (20'),
              Tthe developer shall construct frontage improvements along the entire width of the staff,
              in accordance with the requirements set forth in section 9-27-100 of this chapter and
              subsection 17-5-060B of this code.


Figure 9-27-090-1
           EXHIBIT C
FLAG LOT CODE COMPARISON CHART
                                                                                             Flag Lot Ordinance
                                                                                             Proposed Changes

Current DCMC Code Section     Current Requirements                                      Proposed DCMC Code Section    Proposed Requirements                                 Explanation
                                                                                        (changes noted in red)
9‐27‐090: Purpose Statement   Flag lots for single‐family residences may be             9‐27‐090: Purpose Statement   The primary purpose of this section is to outline     clarity in purpose
                              allowed to accommodate the development of                                               the regulations that a flag lot must adhere to.
                              property that otherwise could not reasonably be
                              developed under the regulations contained in this
                              title or other titles adopted by the city. The
                              primary purpose of this section is not to make
                              development of property easier and more
                              profitable. Rather, it is to serve as a last resort for
                              property which may not otherwise be reasonably
                              developed.
9‐27‐090 (A)                  When property is subdivided, flag lots shall not be 9‐27‐090 (A)                        When property is subdivided, flag lots shall only     conformance with State Code 10‐
                              approved by right but may be allowed after                                              be allowed under the following circumstances:         9a‐603(2)(a)
                              considering the following:
9‐27‐090 (A)(1)               More than two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs 9‐27‐090 (B)(3)                      Two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs are          moved into development
                              shall be avoided                                                                        prohibited                                            standards
9‐27‐090 (A)(2)               Whether development of the property in question 9‐27‐090 (A)(1)                         When development of the property on a private         preference for development to
                              under normal city zoning and subdivision                                                lane utilizing existing zoning and subdivision        occur on private lanes
                              regulations is reasonable and practical                                                 regulations is not possible

9‐27‐090 (A)(3)               Creation of a flag lot should not foreclose the    9‐27‐090 (A)(3)                      Where Creation of a flag lot does not foreclose     additional clarification
                              possibility of future development of other large                                        the possibility of future development of other
                              interior parcels that are not developable unless a                                      large interior parcels that would be developable if
                              street is extended to them across other adjacent                                        a street were extended to them subject to the
                              properties.                                                                             street connection requirements found within
                                                                                                                      section 17‐5‐030 (A); and


New sections added                                                                      9‐27‐090 (A)(2)               As a lot split or within subdivisions of fewer than   limiting use to specific situations
                                                                                                                      10 lots;
                                                                                        9‐27‐090 (A)(4)               The flag lot does not have frontage on a classified   reduction in traffic conflicts
                                                                                                                      street as defined by and illustrated in the Draper
                                                                                                                      City Master Transportation Plan
9‐27‐090 (B): Development     When flag lots are permitted, they shall be               9‐27‐090 (B): Development     When flag lots are permitted, they shall be           no change
Standards                     subject to the following conditions:                      Standards                     subject to the following conditions:
9‐27‐090 (B)(1)               A flag lot shall be comprised of a narrow staff           9‐27‐090 (B)(1)               A flag lot shall be comprised of a narrow staff       no change
                              portion that is contiguous with a wide flag                                             portion that is contiguous with a wide flag
                              portion.                                                                                portion.




                                                                                                   Page 1 of 5
                                                                                     Flag Lot Ordinance
                                                                                     Proposed Changes

Current DCMC Code Section   Current Requirements                               Proposed DCMC Code Section   Proposed Requirements                                Explanation
                                                                               (changes noted in red)
9‐27‐090 (B)(2)             The staff portion of the lot shall front on and be  9‐27‐090 (B)(2)             The staff portion of the lot shall front on and be   clarity
                            contiguous to a street, whether public or private.                              contiguous to a local street, whether public or
                            The minimum width of the staff portion at any                                   private.                                             other requirements split out as
                            point shall be twenty feet (20'). However, a                                                                                         separate individual standards
                            greater staff width for lots within the sensitive
                            lands overlay zone may be required or where
                            required by the fire code. The maximum length of 9‐27‐090 (B)(4)                The minimum width of the staff portion at any        requirements split out as
                            the staff shall be five hundred feet (500'). The                                point shall be thirty feet (30'), comprised of a     separate individual standards
                            maximum grade of the staff shall not exceed                                     minimum of twenty feet (20’) of paved access
                            twelve percent (12%) in the direction of intended                               width and five feet (5’) of landscaping located on   Increase in staff width to
                            traffic flow on the staff. The staff portion of the                             each side of the pavement. Greater staff width       accommodate landscape
                            lot shall generally follow property contours.                                   may be required by the fire marshal based based      screening of driveway
                                                                                                            on the access width requirements of the
                                                                                                            International Fire Code (IFC)

                                                                               9‐27‐090 (B)(5)              The maximum length of the staff portion shall be requirements split out as
                                                                                                            five hundred feet (500') as measured from the         separate individual standards
                                                                                                            street right of way line to the beginning of the flag
                                                                                                            portion of the lot. The flag portion of the lot shall clarifications to measurement
                                                                                                            begin at the property line or line segments which
                                                                                                            define the minimum front yard depth per the
                                                                                                            minimum listed setbacks for main buildings.

                                                                               9‐27‐090 (B)(7)              The maximum grade of the access driveway       clarity
                                                                                                            within the staff shall not exceed ten percent
                                                                                                            (10%) , except in the Hillside Sensitive Lands updated to reflect recent
                                                                                                            Overlay Zone where the maximum grade shall not changes to driveway standards
                                                                                                            exceed twelve percent (12%).




                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
                                                                                        Flag Lot Ordinance
                                                                                        Proposed Changes

Current DCMC Code Section   Current Requirements                                   Proposed DCMC Code Section   Proposed Requirements                                Explanation
                                                                                   (changes noted in red)
9‐27‐090 (B)(3)             The size of the flag portion of the lot shall        9‐27‐090 (B)(10)               The size of the flag portion of the lot shall be     increased lot size to reduce
                            conform to the minimum lot size requirement of                                      greater than or equal to 1.25 times the minimum number of properties for which
                            the zone in which the lot is located, but in no case                                lot size requirement of the zone in which the lot is division is possible
                            be less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square                                       located, but in no case be less than fifteen
                            feet. Sufficient turnaround space for emergency                                     thousand square feet (15,000 ft²). The staff         decrease in conflicts with
                            vehicles shall be provided.                                                         portion of the lot shall not be included in this     existing development
                                                                                                                minimum lot size calculation.
                                                                                                                                                                     clarified calculation

                                                                                                                                                                     other requirement split out as
                                                                                                                                                                     separate standard
                                                                                   9‐27‐090 (B)(8)              For lots where the staff portion is over one‐        clarified when a turn around is
                                                                                                                hundred fifty feet (150’) in length, sufficient      required
                                                                                                                turnaround space for emergency vehicles shall be
                                                                                                                provided and an easement for access by                  added approval authority
                                                                                                                emergency vehicles will be required. The fire
                                                                                                                marshal shall review and approve the design and consolidated requirements
                                                                                                                location.
9‐27‐090 (B)(4)             No building or structure shall be located within       9‐27‐090 (B)(9)              No building or structure shall be located within        numbering change only
                            the staff portion of a flag lot.                                                    the staff portion of a flag lot
9‐27‐090 (B)(5)             The front yard of a flag lot shall be on the side of   9‐27‐090 (B)(11)             The front yard of a flag lot shall be on the side of increase in setbacks to mitigate
                            the flag portion which connects to the staff.                                       the flag portion which connects to the staff.           potential for negative impacts
                            Regardless of the zone, the minimum front yard                                      Setbacks for all main buildings shall be a minimum with neighboring properties
                            setback shall be twenty five feet (25') and all                                     of twenty five feet (25') from all property lines for
                            other setbacks for main buildings shall be a                                        all flag lots less than or equal to twenty thousand
                            minimum of twenty feet (20').                                                       square feet (20,000 ft²) in size, and thirty feet (30’)
                                                                                                                for all flag lots greater than twenty thousand
                                                                                                                square feet (20,000 ft²) in size. Calculated lot
                                                                                                                sizes for this section do not include the staff
                                                                                                                portion of the lot.

9‐27‐090 (B)(6)             Screen fencing may be required to be erected           9‐27‐090 (B)(14)             Fencing and landscaping shall comply with the         clarification of fencing standards
                            around the staff and flag portions of the lot.                                      limitations related to view obstructions listed in 9‐
                                                                                                                27‐080. Fencing along or around the staff portion reduction in maximum front
                                                                                                                shall not exceed three feet (3’) in height when       yard fence height
                                                                                                                abutting the front yard of an adjacent lot or
                                                                                                                parcel.




                                                                                              Page 3 of 5
                                                                                      Flag Lot Ordinance
                                                                                      Proposed Changes

Current DCMC Code Section   Current Requirements                                 Proposed DCMC Code Section   Proposed Requirements                                Explanation
                                                                                 (changes noted in red)
9‐27‐090 (B)(7)             Fire hydrants shall be provided to serve the flag    9‐27‐090 (B)(15)             Fire hydrants shall be provided to serve the flag     eliminated redundancy in
                            lot as required by the Utah state adopted fire                                    lot as required by the International Fire Code        turnaround requirements see
                            code. Any fire hydrants located in the public rights                              (IFC). Any fire hydrants located in the public rights new proposed language for
                            of way shall be dedicated to the water provider                                   of way shall be dedicated to the water provider       section 9‐27‐090 (B)(8)
                            for access to and maintenance of the hydrant. The                                 for access to and maintenance of the hydrant
                            fire chief shall review proposed flag lots to ensure
                            adequate space and site configuration for
                            turnaround of emergency vehicles.

9‐27‐090 (B)(8)             All driveways located in the staff portion of the lot 9‐27‐090 (B)(6)             The driveway access within the staff shall be        required pavement for all flag lot
                            shall be paved within one hundred feet (100') of                                  paved with asphalt or concrete to a minimum          driveways
                            any preexisting house on a neighboring parcel.                                    width of twenty feet (20’). Design of the driveway
                                                                                                              shall provide a manner for controlling drainage      details regarding pavement
                                                                                                              water acceptable to the city engineer. The load      design grouped together
                                                                                                              bearing capacity of the driveway may be required
                                                                                                              to be designed to support the weight of fire and
                                                                                                              emergency vehicles as required by the fire
                                                                                                              marshal and city engineer.

9‐27‐090 (B)(9)             Upon review, the city may require installation of 9‐27‐090 (B)(6)                 Design of the driveway shall provide a manner for language added to 9‐27‐090 (B)
                            curb, gutter and other drainage control measures                                  controlling drainage water acceptable to the city (6)
                            in the staff portion of a flag lot to prevent runoff                              engineer.
                            from entering neighboring properties.                                                                                               strengthened requirement

9‐27‐090 (B)(10)            Clear address signage must be installed and         9‐27‐090 (B)(18)              Clear address signage must be installed and          eliminated confusion regarding
                            maintained at the street, including notice that the                               maintained at the street.                            driveways and private lanes
                            driveway is a private right of way.
                                                                                                                                                                   renumbered

9‐27‐090 (B)(11)            When the staff of a flag lot exceeds the minimum 9‐27‐090 (B)(19)                 The developer shall construct frontage             clarity
                            width requirement of twenty feet (20'), the                                       improvements in accordance with the
                            developer shall construct frontage improvements                                   requirements set forth in section 9‐27‐100 of this applicable to all frontage
                            along the entire width of the staff, in accordance                                chapter and subsection 17‐5‐060B of this code.
                            with the requirements set forth in section 9‐27‐
                            100 of this chapter and subsection 17‐5‐060B of
                            this code.




                                                                                             Page 4 of 5
                                                        Flag Lot Ordinance
                                                        Proposed Changes

Current DCMC Code Section   Current Requirements   Proposed DCMC Code Section   Proposed Requirements                                Explanation
                                                   (changes noted in red)
New sections added                                 9‐27‐090 (B)(12)             All accessory buildings and structures shall follow increase in setbacks to mitigate
                                                                                the regulations contained in section 9‐10‐040       potential for negative impacts
                                                                                except that accessory buildings and structures      with neighboring properties
                                                                                over two hundred square feet (200 ft²) in size can
                                                                                be built no closer than fifteen feet (15’) to a
                                                                                neighboring property line
                                                   9‐27‐090 (B)(13)             Landscaping shall be installed within the staff     addition of landscaping
                                                                                portion of the lot along each side of the access    standards for screening of
                                                                                driveway pavement. Landscaping shall include a driveway
                                                                                mix of live plant materials with vertical growth
                                                                                characteristics such as perennial grasses, shrubs,
                                                                                and small to medium sized trees. Xeriscaping with
                                                                                native and drought tolerant plants is encouraged.


                                                   9‐27‐090 (B)(16)             The maximum height of main buildings on flag          mitigate potential for negative
                                                                                lots is limited to 2 stories and a maximum of thirty impacts with neighboring
                                                                                feet (30’).                                           properties
                                                   9‐27‐090 (B)(17)             Total lot coverage of flag lots is limited to no more mitigate potential for negative
                                                                                than 35% of the area contained within the flag        impacts with neighboring
                                                                                portion of the lot.                                   properties

                                                                                                                                     account for increase to minimum
                                                                                                                                     lot size




                                                              Page 5 of 5
  EXHIBIT D
ORDINANCE 14-27
