Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: November 17, 2020
Re: Ordinance #1466 Adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation pertaining to restaurant seating Comments: The attached ordinance is the result of informal requests for staff to look into ways that Draper City can support efforts to follow social distancing guidelines and public health orders related to the COVID-19 global pandemic.
Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-504 allows the City Council, without prior consideration of or recommendation from the Planning Commission, to enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality if the City Council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest or the area is unregulated.
Such a temporary land use regulation may prohibit or regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval.
Enacting the proposed  temporary land use ordinance would allow restaurants in Draper City the opportunity to erect temporary outdoor seating under tents or canopies. Such seating would serve the citizens of Draper while following recommended social distancing guidelines in compliance with State and local public health orders.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The City Council finds a compelling, countervailing public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulation.
2. The City Council finds the proposed ordinance is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.
3. The City Council finds that the promulgated temporary land use regulations ensure compliance with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper and easing economic pressures on restaurants.
For Denial:
1. The City Council does not find a compelling, countervailing public interest in enacting the temporary land use regulation.
2. The City Council does not find the proposed ordinance to be in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.
3. The City Council does not find that the promulgated temporary land use regulations will comply with local and state orders while simultaneously protecting the citizens of Draper and easing economic pressures on restaurants. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1466 11/12/2020 Cover Memo