Draft minutes
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, DECEMBER 19, 2019 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PRESENT: Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners John Van Hoff, Mary Squire, Traci
Gundersen, Kent Player, and Alternate Commissioners Gary Ogden, Lisa Fowler and DeLaina
Tonks

ABSENT: Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker

STAFF PRESENT: Jennifer Jastremsky, Russell Fox, Amie Salazar, Christina Oliver, Pete Kane,
Mike Barker, Spencer DuShane, Jake Sorensen, and Brien Maxfield

ALSO PRESENT: Roll on File

Business Meeting:

Chairperson Adams welcomed everyone in attendance and called the meeting to order at 6:30
p.m.

1.     Public Hearing: City Initiated Medical Cannabis Text Amendment (Legislative
       Action)
A request by the City for approval of a Text Amendment to various sections of Draper City
Municipal Code Title 9 to comply with state law concerning the regulation of medical cannabis
as passed by the Utah State Legislature in 2019. These changes would apply citywide.
Application TEXTMAP-92-2019. Staff contact: Russell Fox, 801-576-6516,
Russell.fox@draper.ut.us.

Russell Fox, Assistant City Manager, introduced the item and explained what cities are allowed
and required to do according to state law on medical cannabis. By January 2021, cities are
required to incorporate the changed into code. The proposed changes mirror state law. At a
minimum the City has to permit cannabis production and medial cannabis pharmacy. He noted
that medical cannabis pharmacies were not permitted in primarily residential areas. Production
establishments would be allowed within the manufacturing and agricultural zones. He explained
that the proposed changes would amend chapter 9-3 to match state statues and codes and would
add a new chapter 9-42 which outlines health and safety standards as well as license
requirements and language changes among other things.

Commissioner Gundersen asked if the proposed language change which added that no more than
one establishment per 40,000 population was necessary since it seemed unlikely for Draper to
get more than one establishment already.

Mr. Fox responded that it has been up for debate on if it was necessary or not.

Commissioner Gundersen asked why they were concerned about limiting it.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 2

Mr. Fox replied that he did not know for certain but indicated that cities have adopted these types
of regulations.

Commissioner Gundersen asked where the A2 zone was located. Mr. Fox responded with the
location for the one A2 zoned property in the city.

Commissioner Fowler asked if they needed to proactively add that medical cannabis pharmacies
are allowed in individual special districts or if that could be up to the districts themselves.

Mr. Fox explained that the language in the statute does not give them a lot of latitude to allow it
to be up to districts themselves. He also pointed out that none of them are primarily residential.

Chairperson Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item. No comments were
offered, and the public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Gundersen expressed that she did not feel the language change was necessary.

Commissioner Fowler indicated that she liked how it was written and felt it was best to be more
restrictive to start with.

Commissioner Squire agreed with Commissioner Fowler that she was for the additional language
and restriction

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the text amendment requested by Draper City for the City initiated medical
cannabis text amendment. Application TEXTMAP-912-2019 based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated December 13, 2019 and as modified by the findings and conditions
following the language proposed by Staff adding restrictions on production establishments
and pharmacies based on population and limiting the hours of operation.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Ogden, Player, Gundersen voted, “Aye”.

2.      Public Hearing: HBA Plaza at Draper Condo Conversion Plat Amendment Request
        (Administrative Action)
A request by Greg Wall, representing Avenue Consultants, for a plat amendment to allow an
existing office building located at 38 West 13775 South to be converted into commercial condos.
The property is located within the M1 (Light Manufacturing) zone and is on 2.55 acres of
property. Application SUBD-872-2019. Staff contact: Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, presented information on the proposed request. The
applicant would like to amend the plat in order to condominiumize the building so they can sell


                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 3

units instead of rent unit spaces. She updated the commission on some of the changes that had
taken place since the staff report was completed. The change would modify the interior space for
the units.

Greg Wall, Avenue Consultants Representative, shared further details about HBA’s history with
the site. He noted the exterior of the site will remain the same along with the additional 10%
landscaping that they have. He explained further details to the plans and indicated he could
answer any questions.

Chairperson Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item. No comments were
offered, and the public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Player voiced that he was happy to see the building be completed.

Motion: Commissioner Player motioned to approve the plat amendments as request by
Greg Wall, representing Avenue Consultants, for HBA Plaza at Draper Condo Conversion.
Application SUBD-872-2019 based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in
the Staff Report dated December 9, 2019 and in addition granting amendments requested
to change the building wall and structure to accommodate the condo purchasers

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Ogden, Player, Gundersen voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Silverhawk Subdivision Zone Change Request (Legislative Action)
A request by Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk Enterprises, for a Zone Change request for
3.68 acres of property from the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum)
zone to the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum) zone located at 1110
East 13200 South and 12360 South 1162 East. Application TEXTMAP-874-2019. Staff contact:
Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328, Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us.

Ms. Jastremsky introduced the zone change request. She noted that they are requesting to change
the property to RA2 and the subject property is adjacent to some RA2 zoned properties. She
presented the concept site plan for the property.

Commissioner Gundersen asked if the two existing homes will stay.

Ms. Jastremsky responded it is her understanding they would remain.

Mike Gabel, Silverhawk Enterprise Representative, clarified that their intent is to keep the two
existing homes there.

Commissioner Gundersen asked if they could get access of the private lane.



                                                3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 4

Mr. Gabel indicated they could not.

Chairperson Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item.

Will Sommerfeld indicated he lived near the subject property and expressed concern about water
and retention ponds. He then asked if it was confirmed that there would not be an access way
between his house and the neighbor to the south.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that if they are successful with the rezone request, they will require
subdivision plans which would require the necessary onsite detention among other things.

Mr. Gabel indicated that the access Mr. Sommerfeld mentioned would only be used for utilities.
He explained they would have to amend the plat with the permission of the property owner in
order to create an access way at that location.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the zone change as requested by Mike Gabel, representing Silverhawk
Enterprises, for Silverhawk Subdivision Zone Change, Application TEXTMAP-874-2019,
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 19, 2019.

Second: Commissioner Gundersen

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Ogden, Player, Gundersen voted, “Aye”.

4.      Public Hearing: Beus Billboard Text Amendment (Legislative Action)
A request by Paul Gilbert, for a text amendment to DCMC Sections 9-26-030 and 9-26-120 and
creating a new code Section 9-26-075 titled Permitted Off Premise Permanent Signs Application
TEXTMAP-325-2018. Staff contact: Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
Jennifer.jastremsky@draper.ut.us

Ms. Jastremsky presented an overview of the Item. She pointed out the location and number of
existing billboards in the city. She noted the current code does not allow for new billboards but
allows for existing ones to remain. She reviewed the proposed text. She then identified areas that
would be affected by the text amendment and reviewed the concepts for the billboards that
prompted the text amendment.

Chairperson Adams asked if they can be electronic or animated signs. He asked if Draper
collected any tax money from those or if there were other benefits to allowing them in the City.

Ms. Jastremsky stated they can be electronic or animated but she was unsure of specific benefits
such as tax money that could be collected.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the design and landscaping requirements would be applied to
existing billboards.


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 5


Ms. Jastremsky explained that they would only apply to new ones. It was also indicated they
would not apply to the relocation of a previously existing sign.

Commissioner Player asked where the location of the new proposed billboards would be.

Paul Gilbert, Property Representative, clarified the location of the signs. He reiterated and
clarified their request to replace and put up additional billboards. He then discussed the
provisions of the ordinance which included restrictions on location and design and landscaping
standards among other things. He emphasized that they felt the ordinance would be very helpful
for Draper.

Chairperson Adams clarified their plans would only add one more billboard to the existing 16
already within Draper.

Mr. Gilbert indicated there were two new signs bringing the total up to 18 and that two signs
would be on the same property.

Chairperson Adams asked how many signs they can have per property.

Ms. Jastremsky explained that they are allowed every 400 feet, so they would simply need the
right acreage and coverage in order to have more than one sign on a property.

Commissioner Player noted that the location of these signs was quite a way from I-15. He also
noted that they need to be cautious with how bright they allow these signs to be.

Commissioner Gundersen pointed out there are homes behind the property and shared that she
was curious how lighted signs would affect them.

Commissioner Fowler reiterated that there were many homes in the area and expressed concern
with allowing lighted signs within a close proximity of homes.

Commissioner Player noted that the angle of the sign may make a difference on the amount of
light they will put onto people’s property.

Chairperson Adams opened the meeting up for public comments on the Item.

Patrick Ord commented that he felt this was an attractive improvement to their community. He
added that the billboard would be directed to highway traffic and not to the nearby homes.

Teyl Clark expressed that traffic along that portion of I-15 is bad and she feels that adding these
signs would only add to the problem and make traffic move slower. She also does not agree with
the idea of having lighted signs. She then asked if UDOT has done any study on lighted signs
and how they affect traffic.



                                                 5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 6

Jared Johnson indicated he was a resident and has also worked in the billboard industry. He
asked how brightness will be addressed since the brightness standards have been removed from
the proposed text change. He also offered his help in crafting language for a brightness standard.

Mike Helm stated that he also was in the billboard industry. He noted that the reasons they
should support and not support the text amendment in the Staff Report memo consisted of the
same items and felt that this did not comply with Draper City’s code which does not allow for
new signs in the city. He expressed concern with the ambiguity about relocating signs that they
could potentially expand the size of the signs up to 1,000 square feet. He also feels that the
request was unfair and that approving the request would be showing favorites. He asked the city
to deny the request or open the changes up to allow for other billboard companies to grow within
the city.

Braden Saunders, representing Yesco Outdoor Media, commented that they are for the
installation of new signs but against the amendment as it is currently written. He expressed that
the amendment was not fair to all businesses. He noted that the original amendment proposal
provided a possibility for the city to use the signs for free advertising and asked if the current
version allowed for that.

Tracy Johansson explained that she also represented a billboard company and that she was for
growth of billboards but did not agree with the proposed text amendment. She stated that she felt
the proposed standards limited other businesses from building signs and developing their
businesses. She also expressed that she felt the size of the proposed sign designs were too large.

Guy Larson pointed out that he worked for an outdoor advertising company. He then noted that
he has been contacted by numerous businesses about putting billboards up in Draper and has to
turn them down based off current city code. He shared that it was not uncommon for cities to
have caps on the number of billboards allowed. He also asked that Staff look into a method of
keeping track of the replacement of signs. He then expressed that he feels the proposed allowed
size of the signs was too large and that the possibility of electric signs shinning into homes
would also need to be addressed.

Chairperson Adams closed public hearing on the Item.

Mr. Gilbert responded to concerns brought up by citizens and business owners. He explained that
they had previously worked on a brightness standard for lights but ran into legal and technical
issues, so they felt it would be best not to include any standards for billboards. He expressed that
he did not feel the amendment would change rights of any existing signs and that the benefit was
not limited to only one use or property.

Mr. Gilbert continued explaining that the size cap of 1,000 square feet was chosen to match the
Utah State code, but that they would be happy to limit it to 672 square feet. He reiterated that he
felt these were higher standards for billboards that would benefit the city. He also explained that
free advertising would not be the case for these signs and that a method for keeping track of
signs that were being replaced would need to be addressed separately by the city.


                                                 6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
December 19, 2019
Page 7


Commissioner Gundersen asked what the property owner plans to do with the property.

Mr. Gilbert responded that the owner is considering a rebuild and considering office space or a
car dealership.

Commissioner Gundersen asked if they have previously allowed variances from ordinance
DCMC-9-26-120 that put in place to cap the number of billboards allowed in the city.

It was indicated that all 16 billboards were in place before the ordinance was created.

Commissioner Fowler noted that she appreciated that landscaping elements that has been
proposed.

Chairperson Adams noted that it would be difficult to police the illumination and other elements
associated with lighted signs. He noted that it may be creating a barrier to enter by creating a
standard that is more expensive than a simple metal pole.

Commissioner Squire expressed that the beautification element was not compelling enough to
change the code. She also noted that she is very concerned with the size and electronic aspect of
the signs.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a negative recommendation to City
Council for the Beus Billboard text amendment, as requested by Paul Gilbert, creating
regulations for permitted off premise permanent signs. Application TEXTMAP-325-2018
based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated December 10, 2019.

Second: Commissioner Gundersen

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Squire, Ogden, Player, Gundersen voted, “Aye”.

Discussion was made on who would attend a conference in Moab, Utah. It was indicated that
Commissioner Gundersen and Player would attend. Chairman Adams asked for Ms. Jastremsky
to check back in with him.

5.     Adjournment: Chairperson Adams moved to adjourn the meeting. A voice vote was
       taken with all in favor and the meeting adjourned at 8:39 p.m.




                                                 7
