MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 17, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:                Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                        Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                    Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                    Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Russ Fox, Assistant
                    City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver,
                    Community Development Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Britnee
                    Johnston, Communications Director; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically according to Draper City Municipal Code 2- 1-040.
Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council
with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at
the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings
without an anchor location. The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

    1. Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have
       all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
    2. Governor Herbert and the Utah Department of Health have recently issued updated orders
       in response to record numbers of COVID-19 cases and COVID-19-related hospitalizations.
       The orders implement statewide what has been termed a “mask mandate” and have severely
       limited social gatherings in an attempt “to prevent and control the rapidly changing
       consequences of COVID- 19 throughout the state.”
    3. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to
       manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with applicable health orders.
    4. COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
       Draper City residents and the public in general.
    5. The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear,
       or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.

To participate, please see the options below:

    1. Listen through the Draper City website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas- Minutes
    2. Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us. These will become part of the public
       record.
    3. Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request and include your name, address, and
       phone number which you will be calling from, for the Zoom meeting ID to
       public.comment@draper.ut.us.
Study Session

1.0   Report: Alta View Hospital's community response during the pandemic - Scott
      Roberson and Amber Nielsen

1.1   Scott Roberson noted that he was a Draper resident of more than 20 years and thanked the
      Council for their support to his family and the Draper community. He explained that Alta
      View Hospital was a 60-bed hospital located in Sandy just north of the Draper boundary.
      He said he felt that things were going as well as they could for their hospital. Like most
      places in Utah, they had been greatly impacted by the surge in the COVID-19 pandemic.
      He said that they were proud of the work that they did and of their caregivers. However,
      they were feeling stressed out and are getting close to reaching a breaking point. He said
      that because it was such a demanding time for any healthcare working, anything anyone
      could do to offer support was appreciated.

      Mr. Roberson informed the Council that there were currently 375 patients hospitalized in
      an Intermountain Health Care facility. Seven of those were at Alta View. He noted that
      they were a small community hospital that had an eight-bed intensive care unit. However,
      when patients got really sick, they were sent out of Alta View hospital to a larger facility
      where they could be grouped with other really sick COVID patients. That was a good
      thing, allowing patients to be treated by experts in a specific field. Despite that, there were
      still those seven patients at Alta View. The role of Alta View was to take care of less sick
      COVID patients and continue to offer other services expected from a community hospital
      such as orthopedic surgery and general surgery.

      Alta View had recently completed an extensive renovation and remodel to create a new
      patient tower. That left a lot of old, unused space on the campus, including 35 beds and
      rooms in the old emergency space that could be used as overflow for COVID positive
      patients. He said that those rooms had been refurbished and equipped with all of the
      supplies and other equipment that is typically needed to treat COVID patients so that the
      rooms stood ready to be used by Intermountain Healthcare if needed.

      Mr. Roberson then shared some information specific to the south end of the valley. He
      said that since COVID started, Alta View had taken care of 197 COVID positive patients.
      The average length of stay for those patients in the ICU was about six days. Patients on
      the regular floor were admitted for an average of 3.5 days. Interestingly, since October 1,
      the hospital had taken care of 111 COVID positive patients. 56% of the COVID patients
      Alta View cared for came in during the last six weeks. He said that the hospital was doing
      something really good for their patients and community; if a patient shows up at
      Intermountain Medical Center where the sickest patients are being directed, Alta View has
      served as an extension to handle less severe cases to keep beds free for the sickest COVID
      patients.

      Mr. Roberson said that they were hopeful that in a couple of months the vaccine would
      make a difference as it became available to the public. He also stated their gratitude for

                                          Page 2 of 33
      the support received from the community throughout this process. He said that several
      businesses within Draper City had brought food items like smoothies for their caregivers
      that had brightened their team’s day.

1.2   Amber Nielsen added that Alta View was a great place to receive care and that the
      community surrounding it did support its caregivers. She also thanked Draper for the
      support.

1.3   Councilmember Green thanked the Alta View representatives and stated that if they ever
      needed anything from the Council that they should not hesitate to ask. The Council would
      support them however they could.

1.4   Councilmember F. Lowry echoed Councilmember Green’s comments of appreciation. He
      said that the Council could only imagine the challenges they were dealing with right now.
      He asked about the proper protocol to bring different items to caregivers such as smoothies
      to help lift folks. He also asked what Draper could do as a City to help support caregivers.

1.5   Mr. Roberson said that the right protocol would just be to call him at 801-501-2700. He
      would then put the giver in touch with the volunteer services manager. He said it was an
      easy process. He said that it meant so much to caregivers dealing with the tough stuff. He
      said that although Alta View did not have a lot of COVID patients right now, they had an
      increase in other patients.

1.6   Councilmember T. Lowery clarified that Alta View was not full of COVID patients
      currently. She asked what percentage was COVID patients.

      Mr. Roberson said they currently had seven COVID patients, which translated into roughly
      20% of their patients being COVID positive. He said that last week 50% of patients were
      COVID positive. He said that their capacity depended on the week and how sick the
      patients got. He said that if someone arrived at Alta View and did not need to be on a
      ventilator, chances were that they could stay at Alta View. However, if someone were put
      on a ventilator they would be transferred to another hospital where they could receive more
      specialized care.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if that was a trend. She further inquired if they were
      seeing the COVID numbers go down since last week, or if the numbers were arbitrary.

      Mr. Roberson said that a couple of things had happened. The other hospitals that he had
      mentioned who took care of sicker patients had gotten more creative with their space and
      were making new units and departments to place COVID patients. LDS hospital had
      recently opened up 35 new beds to take care of sicker patients. The medical center in
      Murray converted some of their units into COVID units. Riverton Hospital had a pediatric
      unit that they had since closed to pediatrics to open to COVID patients. Because of this,
      there was more capacity across the valley for COVID patients causing a decrease in volume
      at Alta View. He also noted that anytime there was a public policy change the hospital
      sees the impacts of the change about two weeks after the change was made. Following this

                                         Page 3 of 33
      trend, they would not expect to see any change from Governor Herbert’s mandates for
      about another week.

2.0   Discussion: Public Hearing Information Submittal Deadlines - David Dobbins

2.1   David Dobbins, City Manager, explained that the code currently states that if an item is
      continued then it needed to be re-noticed. He stated that he thought the code intended that
      if the actual public hearing needed to be rescheduled, the City would send out notification
      again to ensure that the public was aware of the new public hearing date. He noted that on
      tonight’s agenda there was an item to clarify that if the Council closed the public hearing,
      but the item itself was continued, the City would not send out additional noticing because
      the item would be listed as an action item on the next agenda.

      As a follow up to this point, Mr. Dobbins said that the Council’s policy raised a couple of
      questions. First, if a public hearing is closed and the item is continued to the next council
      meeting, people will often send emails to and want to communicate with the Council about
      an item even though the public hearing was closed. Sometimes that could create a problem
      because if an applicant submits information that the neighbors were not aware of, the
      neighbor might ask when they can comment on that new information. Because of this,
      staff inquired if the Council wanted to clarify their practice/policy so that the public hearing
      is either kept open to allow people to submit written comments or if the Council wanted to
      tell the public that they would no longer accept any public comment. They could send an
      email; it just would not become part of the public record for that particular item.

      Mr. Dobbins asked if the Council had any suggestions on how they wanted to move ahead.

2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if they were simply talking about instances when the
      public hearing closed, and the Council ended up not voting on an item.

      Mr. Dobbins reiterated they were talking about instances when the Council closed the
      public hearing but chose not to vote, so the item got bumped to the next agenda. Staff
      wanted feedback on what the Council’s policy was about receiving public comment
      between when the two meetings. He said technically the public hearing was closed so staff
      needs clarification if the Council still wanted to receive public comment. Essentially if
      residents called staff, were they supposed to thank the resident for the information, but
      inform that the public hearing was closed and therefore not pass the information on to the
      Council, or did the Council want to keep the public hearing open so that everyone could
      see the shared information.

      Councilmember F. Lowry summarized that by leaving the public hearing open it would
      allow the Council to review emails that were sent in between when the live public comment
      was held and the meeting when the item was voted on.

      Mr. Dobbins said that this was a gray area. The Council could receive the emails. He
      asked the Council to assume it was a controversial item and the applicant sent an email
      saying that all the public comment that was received at the last meeting was incorrect. In

                                           Page 4 of 33
      response, the neighbors say, “hold on, I disagree. When do I get to speak to what the
      applicant just said?” Because the public hearing was closed, the neighbors would only be
      able to send an email or written comment.

      He said that staff was suggesting that if the Council wanted to continue to receive
      comments and discuss them at the next meeting, they might want to consider keeping the
      public hearing open.

2.3   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt as though the public comment should be kept
      open because if the applicant can keep submitting information, but the public was not able
      to respond an equity issue was created.

      Mr. Dobbins said that if someone emailed the Council and the public hearing was closed,
      the Council should read it. The question was how to make that available to everyone.

      Mayor Walker said that the issue would occur that if the Council continued a bunch of
      stuff, there would be a second meeting for every single event. If there was a lot of public
      comment that was closed and then continued, then the Council would have to do it all over
      again. This would create a substantial amount of work.

      Mr. Dobbins said that they could tell people that the public hearing was closed.
      Information could be submitted in writing, but it would not be a part of the official record
      or that particular item.

      Mayor Walker said that they should not have the applicants making more stuff either. He
      said the item was being continued so that the Council could think about how they wanted
      to vote. He did not think that the applicants should be able to submit additional information
      either so that it was fair to both the applicant and the public.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that the continuation of the item was strictly for
      deliberation for the Council.

      Mr. Dobbins said that staff would make sure to communicate that to the public; once the
      public hearing was closed, they were not soliciting any formal feedback.

2.4   Mayor Walker asked if it were not true of the code now that if the Council did not make a
      motion that it would roll to the next agenda.

2.5   Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that it was those instances that they were trying to address.
      He said that they were trying to clarify what needed to be included in a motion to continue
      an item. He said that there could be instances where the Council wanted to continue to
      receive more input and if that were the case, this could be specified in the motion.
      However, if the item was continued because of silence (a lack of a motion) they were trying
      to address what the idea was behind the silence: the Council wanted to mull over what was
      said and vote at the next meeting.



                                          Page 5 of 33
3.0   Update: Draper City Logo – Britnee Johnston

3.1   Britnee Johnston, Communications Director, reminded the Council that last time they had
      discussed the logo as a group they had decided to come up with a few more logo options
      before sending them out for a public survey to residents and employees. She said that she
      had been working to come up with those new options as displayed. She noted that they
      were created with the new direction offered by the Council that life was good in Draper,
      that open space was the gem of the City and what set Draper apart, and focusing on a single
      aspect of Draper as opposed to trying to incorporate multiple ideas in the logo.

      She proposed that they send the five new designs and the current logo out to the public
      survey. It would be conducted through email as ranked based voting. A person would
      have to take each logo and rank them from number one (their favorite) to number six (their
      least favorite). A comment box would also be provided in the survey for any public
      comment. The survey would go out to 1,200 residents, the same sample group that received
      the general plan resident survey. The sample group already represents the demographics
      and neighborhoods of Draper. After getting the survey results, Ms. Johnston would work
      with the Council to pick a single logo and make any final edits to it based on the public
      input.

      Ms. Johnston clarified that the Council was not deciding on a logo today but specifying if
      they were at a point to move on to the public input portion of the logo development.

      Also, Ms. Johnston went through each of the logos briefly so that the Council could know
      the thought behind them. For each of the logos, she displayed alternative logo formats in
      one color black, and one color blue. She also displayed what they would look like on
      apparel, a city truck, a street sign, and on doors.

             •       Option 1: (Square logo featuring Lone Peak and the word Draper contained
                     within the square.) She said the logo was unique and stands out because
                     there was no other City around Draper that had a square logo. It was also
                     not the typical landscape as it used a mosaic style that featured open space
                     in the foreground and a sunlit sky in the back. She noted that upward
                     pathways were representing new opportunities. Also, the logo was quite
                     colorful compared to past logo iterations. The logo represents a liveliness,
                     that Draper has diverse opportunities, and that the City was vibrant and full
                     of life. The colors would also look great on the website.
             •       Option 2: (An oval containing Lone Peak with the word Draper flagged
                     across the center and extending beyond the oval of the logo.) Ms. Johnston
                     described this logo as “bold, yet simple.” The Draper name stood out with
                     Lone peak more defined in this option. The bottom of the logo had an open
                     space with the roads leading upwards. She said that this logo was also in
                     alignment with Silicon Slopes that also featured their name within a circle.
                     Because of this, the logo communicated that Draper was on trend with the
                     tech industry.


                                         Page 6 of 33
             •       Option 3: (A D, with Lone Peak, depicted in the bottom third portion of the
                     letter and its summit extending into the negative space of the letter. Draper
                     follows outside of the vertical line of the D.) Ms. Johnston explained that
                     this was one of the original selections from the internal logo committee.
                     The designer tried other colors, gradients, and mountain illustrations. The
                     original illustration was the best. As a result, they stuck closely to the
                     original logo, but removed the tech squares and removed the gradient to put
                     it into a single dark teal blue. She said that she felt as though the mountain
                     illustration showed strength and could represent the strength in Draper’s
                     commerce, economy, and community.
             •       Option 4: (A letter D shape filled in with a more abstract depiction of Lone
                     Peak with open space and leading lines in the foreground. Draper and Utah
                     appear stacked underneath the logo.) Ms. Johnston described this as a
                     simpler version of the letter D more to the blues and greens of the current
                     colors. These were a little more calming. There was open space and
                     foothills in the front with a simple peak in the back.
             •       Option 5: (An oval with the bold color scheme with Lone Peak in the
                     background and the open space in the foreground. Draper and Utah appear
                     stacked underneath the logo.): Ms. Johnston noted that this was a similar
                     illustration as Option 1, but from a slightly different angle and contained in
                     a ring. She said that the ring gave it a slightly different feeling of classy
                     containment. There were the unique mosaic illustration and the bold colors
                     representing liveliness and diversity and the upward pathways of new
                     opportunities.

3.2   Councilmember Green asked Ms. Johnston what was her favorite logo. Ms. Johnston said
      that he could ask her that. She said that she was good with any of them. Councilmember
      Green said that it was her area of expertise.

      Ms. Johnston said that she felt that the second option (the oval with Draper flagged across
      is) had the most widespread appeal. She felt that the first and fifth options were the most
      unique if the Council wanted to stand out.

      Councilmember Green said that he agreed with her on option two. He said that these
      options were much better and that the second iteration was much cleaner. He said he
      appreciated this very much and that she went through the process and doing all of the work.
      Mayor Walker said that he liked options two and three. Councilmember Green said that
      he felt Ms. Johnston was good to move forward with getting resident feedback.

3.3   Councilmember Vawdrey said that she liked option three. The only thing that she did not
      like about it was that on the truck and the sign it looked like ID because the word Draper
      looked like an I from a distance.

3.4   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had been favoring option 3 until she presented the
      new versions. He said that he felt options 1, 2, 4, and 5 all outshined option 3 now and
      looked cleaner.

                                         Page 7 of 33
3.5   Ms. Johnston said that if the Council felt as though there were at least one or two options
      that they liked in this group she felt as though they should move on to the public. There
      was enough variety to choose from.

      When Mayor Walker asked, the Council concurred with Ms. Johnston taking the logos to
      the public.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he was partial to option 2 and that he hoped the public
      felt the same.

3.6   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was also partial to option 2. He wondered how the
      logo would look if they took the mountain shape from option 4 and put it in place of the
      mountain shape in option 2.

      Ms. Johnston said that she would keep that input in mind. She explained that after they
      had received all the input from the public they could return to the Council’s ideas.
      However, she felt that it would be good to get what the public was favoring so that they
      did not spend too much time on a logo option that the public did not want. She
      recommended keeping the logos as is and then revisiting them afterward.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports

4.1   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had met with the Tree Commission in the morning.
      He said that they were seeking counsel from the Council on what their goals were. He said
      that they were concerned about presenting different plans on tasks they could help do, only
      to have the Council shoot down their options from a budgetary standpoint. One of the
      primary projects discussed was the entryway from Riverton into Draper and coming up
      with a plan on what could be done there. He said that Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation
      Director was helpful on the call through his realization that to do that entry right would
      require more effort than just the Tree Commission to help beautify that area. He wanted
      to give a heads up that there would likely be a report from the Tree Commission soon.
      Because of this, he felt that the Council needed to be open to what projects they would like
      to support the Tree Commission with, and determine the available funds to put towards
      beautifying the City.

      Mr. Ogden said that Parks and Recreation would be happy to help with a project in that
      area or whatever the Council desires. He said that the entryway had been on their
      beautification list for several years. If it were something the Council wanted to move
      forward on, Parks and Recreation would be happy to work on it with the Tree Commission.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she would love to see some beautification off of the
      14600 South entrance. She said that she didn’t feel as though it had to happen right now,
      but that as they got closer to having the Plural Sight campus open, she felt it would be a
      gateway into the City as well. It would be quite nice to have it be a little bit nicer right
      there.

                                         Page 8 of 33
      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the Tree Commission had discussed that area as one of
      the locations to look at improving. He asked Mr. Dobbins if he recalled correctly that the
      area was under UDOT’s jurisdiction and responsibility. He asked if the City would need
      to talk to UDOT to make changes to that area.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the City would need to talk to UDOT because they would need to
      put a water or power source out there in a UDOT right-of-way. He said that would be easy
      to coordinate with UDOT.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Mr. Dobbins could explore that. He said that if that
      area was determined a priority over the Riverton entrance or if the Council wanted the Tree
      Commission to participate in both projects. He said that he felt that they had some really
      good individuals that were willing to dive in to do some things, but that they felt as though
      they were spinning their wheels because they did not have a full direction from the Council.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that even if they invested in xeriscaping the 14600 South
      exit it would be so much better than the weeds and garbage that existed now.

4.2   Councilmember Vawdrey said that a resident had contacted her and said that they had a
      one-acre property, but that they were only able to have six chickens on the acre, the same
      number of chickens someone was allowed on a 10,000 square foot lot. The resident felt as
      though it was a problem that she was not allowed to have more chickens on an acre parcel.
      Councilmember Vawdrey wondered if that was something they wanted to consider
      changing as she felt that six chickens were not a lot on an acre.

      Councilmember Green said he felt it was fine to look into. He said that his grandfather
      used to tell him about how during the Depression they survived off of the eggs, chickens,
      and food they grew in their backyard. He said that he did not feel as though they should
      restrict that.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said she did not feel as though the sky needed to be the limit, but
      she did feel as though there were already quite a lot of restrictions on chickens. People
      cannot have a rooster, which she felt was smart. However, she felt it was good that the
      resident asked. The resident could apply to change the code, or it was an item the Council
      could discuss and determine if it was a reasonable request.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked what Councilmember Vawdrey’s recommendation was to
      adjust the code. Councilmember Vawdrey said that she should talk to staff about it before
      a decision was made. She thought that on an acre lot, a resident should be able to have at
      least a dozen if a half-acre was allowed six.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said he would like to know the reasoning behind why the
      chickens had been limited to six. Councilmember Vawdrey said that there were animal
      units allowed per acre. She felt that six chickens should constitute one animal unit if a
      horse was an animal unit.

                                          Page 9 of 33
      Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, said that she would take the thoughts
      and do an analysis of units for chickens.

      Mayor Walker noted that Draper used to be the egg capital of the world. He also said that
      in his own experience with chickens he bought six chicks and every one of them ended up
      being a rooster.

4.3   Councilmember T. Lowery wanted to thank the Parks and Recreation team for the Haunted
      Trails that they put on for Halloween. She said that she felt it was awesome and so many
      people loved it and had an amazing time. She thought it was a huge success. She said that
      she knew that a ton of work went into it and wanted to make sure that they knew that she
      appreciated it.

      Councilmember Vawdrey echoed that appreciation. She said that she had a few people
      reach out to her hoping that it was going to happen again next year because they loved it
      so much. Councilmember F. Lowry agreed. He added that the flags at the park on Veterans
      Day were awesome, too.

4.4   Mayor Walker suggested that in addition to the lights at Christmas that they do a live stream
      from City Hall with a countdown to turning the lights on. People could be in their cars and
      Livestream the turning on of the lights with mask-wearing. He said that folks love the
      lights and people like seeing them turned on.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the cute little hallmark Christmas girl could do it as
      she would be “really cute.” Mayor Walker agreed and said she and her brother were really
      busy. He said that he knew the lights were going up in Historic Park. He asked if the
      Council wanted them all turned on at the same time.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said she had seen something really cute where residents had
      said that on Christmas Eve, everyone was going to go outside of their homes and at a certain
      time turn on their Christmas lights and ring a bell. She suggested making that a thing to
      have everyone in Draper turn on their Christmas lights and ring a bell for Draper's holiday
      spirit.

4.5   Mayor Walker also said that he was going to sign an emergency order to keep City Hall
      closed through the Thanksgiving Holiday in conjunction with the Governor’s pandemic
      orders. Employees who could work from home would be working from home. The public
      was not interacting in City Hall. He said that hopefully, the numbers would come down
      moving forward. That closure would allow the City to use more C.A.R.E.S money to be
      able to cover some expenses. He said that it was his impression that most people that he
      had heard from were trying to comply with the orders. He said that he has seen people
      wearing masks now more than he ever had. He said that every business was requiring
      them. There had been some reports of Draper businesses that were not complying with the
      order. When it was investigated, they were in fact following the order.



                                         Page 10 of 33
      He said that the virus does not kill everyone who gets it, but for those who do, it sure can
      linger. He said that his legal secretary had been sick for 24 days. He sent her home at noon
      today because she was coughing like she had emphysema. She just could not shake it.

4.6   Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the gift cards that were sent out. He wanted to know
      how the response had been and if staff and the City were interested in doing another round
      of them. He said that he was concerned that there were a lot of people who did not realize
      that the gift cards were coming, and they might have been thrown away. He also said that
      he heard that some folks had them stolen out of their mailboxes.

      Mr. Dobbins said that staff had heard of a lot of people who were using them. He said that
      there was one neighborhood that said they did not get the gift cards. Several people had
      called to ask for the gift cards. He said that he felt that they ought to give the program
      another week to see the response.

      Ms. Johnston said that there had been a great business response. Over 100 businesses
      signed up to participate in the program.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked how labor-intensive the program was on the
      administrative end. Mr. Dobbins said that Ms. Johnston had put in most of the work upfront
      in getting everything ready. He said that the most work right now was just handling all the
      calls from residents who wanted extra gift cards or said that they had a big family. He said
      he anticipated that would die down shortly. Once the program was done, the business
      would have to bring their paperwork in to be reimbursed. There would be some work on
      the backend.

      Ms. Johnston said that if the City were to do another round, the template had already been
      created and the printer already had the needed information. This would make it pretty
      quick and easy to implement if the Council were interested. Mr. Dobbins said that if all
      the gift cards were used, they amounted to about half a million dollars. He said it did come
      with a pretty hefty price tag.

4.7   Chief Clint Smith provided the Council with an update on Fire’s response concerning the
      implementation of a new CAD dispatch system out at Valley Emergency Communications
      Center (VECC). He said that it was a project that had been years in the making in trying
      to standardize the response process within the Salt Lake Valley and implement a new CAD
      system that allowed both the 911 response centers within Salt Lake County (VECC) and
      the Salt Lake City 911 Dispatch Center. He explained that the issue that had existed for
      many years was that these two primary dispatch centers operated on different programs.
      The call center that emergency calls went to depended upon where people called or what
      cell tower their call was directed from. If it went to Salt Lake City but was determined to
      be a response in Draper City, the call center would have to transfer the resident and make
      a call to the other call center, which caused a delay in the response across the board.

      The issue was one that was taken up by the state legislature a couple of years ago. They
      wanted to see the consolidation of dispatch centers to significantly reduce the number of

                                         Page 11 of 33
      call transfers that happened across the state. The new standardized system allows each
      dispatch center to see the calls coming into the other location, eliminating the need for
      transfers.

      The system implemented was called Versaterm, the same system that had been adopted at
      the change of the fiscal year by Draper City Police to also help address some dispatch
      problems. In addition to the dispatch consolidation, the other significant change that
      occurred with the switch to Versaterm was the use of Automatic Vehicle Locators (AVL’s).
      These are essentially GPS units that are live on all of the first response units across all
      departments that are dispatched out of VECC.

      All of the Fire Chiefs got together and had a frank discussion about responding to address
      the dislike that had long existed about boundaries and different departments responding to
      calls, not within their boundaries. With the implementation of the new technology, the
      Chiefs were able to drop their guard and stop fighting over jurisdictional boundaries.
      Instead, they decided that the closet unit would be most appropriate to respond to 911 calls
      to provide aid as quickly as possible.

      Chief Smith said that there were pros and cons to everything. With the implementation of
      the new CAD system and the AVL dispatching, all of the first response vehicles will be
      dispatched by their AVL location at the time the call comes in moving forward. If the
      crews were in the station, the station location would be used to coordinate and determine
      the response time it would take them to get to an address and compare it to the surrounding
      units and agencies. Whichever unit was deemed the closest would be the unit that was
      dispatched. Anything within Draper as far as ambulance response would utilize Draper
      ambulances. He said that the new system was providing good data on the holes within
      Draper’s response within its boundaries because of distance. However, what it meant, and
      what he wanted the Council to be aware of, was that other agencies would be seen within
      some parts of Draper, such as the north and west part of the City, more frequently than in
      the past. Bluffdale assisted a lot of the west side and Sandy and South Jordan both assisted
      on the north border of the City.

      The valley Fire Chiefs committed to giving the AVL response a solid six-month trial to
      acquire data before making tweaks to the response. One of the challenges for Draper was
      the remote nature of the Suncrest Fire Station which perhaps had them under-utilized
      because of the distance to get them down the hill.

      Chief Smith emphasized the shift in how responses were being organized, but the value of
      the data that they would be gathering in the coming months regarding response times and
      distances.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

                                         Page 12 of 33
2.0    Public Comments

       There was no one present for the general public comment.

       Mayor Walker made the Council aware that a written general public comment had been
       received from resident Kathy Anderson about Vestry Drive.

       The comment is at the end of the minutes.

3.0    Consent Items
          a. Approval of Resolution #20-52, amending Personnel Policy Section 5040
          regarding Holiday Leave.

3.1    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve the Consent Items.               Councilmember
       Vawdrey seconded the motion.

3.2    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0    Action Item: Resolution #20-51, accepting the Audit and Comprehensive Annual
       Financial Report (CAFR) for the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2020.

4.1.   Rob Wood said that he was appreciative of the fact that Draper City trusted his firm to
       provide the annual report services and financial audit that was a requirement of the state.
       He explained that pages 1-3 were the summary of the auditor’s report. He said that he had
       given Draper an unmodified opinion. That was the best opinion he, as an auditor, could
       give an organization. In essence, the firm did not feel as though there was any material
       missing in any of the financial reports.

       Mr. Wood then pointed out a few highlights. He pointed the Council to the Management
       Discussion and Analysis on pages 4-15. He said that it was a condensed financial synopsis
       of how the City performed not only for 2020 but also for the fiscal year 2019. It was the
       only place where there was comparative information.

       Overall, once past the entity-wide statements, there were fund statements. He explained
       that was an area that the Council had a greater hand in because it approved expenditure for
       each fund and reviewed them regularly, especially the General Fund. Mr. Wood was happy
       to report that all of the funds were in a positive fund balance position.

       After the financial statements were presented there were two different reports. The first
       was a requirement for government auditing standards. The firm found no problems with
       internal controls of the City or any deficiencies regarding compliance with laws and state
       regulations. The final report was required by the Utah State Auditor’s Office. Some of the
       areas that the firm tested Draper on were about budgetary compliance and fund balance
       calculations. That was the requirement that the general fund balance totals needed to be

                                         Page 13 of 33
      between 5-25%. This was an area the firm had a finding on. When they completed the
      fund balance calculation for Draper, its General Fund balance was sitting at 36.8%, over
      the requirement. That indicated that the City Council could go out and fund projects.

      The second finding related to state compliance with how court costs were tracked with
      Draper’s Justice Court. The coding was slightly different. They had been encouraged to
      reach out to the administrative office of the courts to get additional training in how the costs
      should be coded in the system.

      He said that City was functioning at a really strong capacity. He did note that there were
      some issues with the blended component with the TRSSD, but those issues would be
      addressed separately.

4.2   Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #20-51, accepting the Audit and
      Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) for Fiscal Year ending June 30,
      2020. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

4.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1465, Rasmussen Family Commercial Zoning Map
      Amendment (Legislative Action), a request by One West Construction, representing
      the Rasmussen Family Limited Partnership, to amend the zoning map designation
      from the A5 (Agricultural, 5 acre minimum) Zone to the CN (Neighborhood
      Commercial) Zone for the property located at approximately 12197 South 300 East.

5.1   Maryann Pickering, planner, oriented the Council to the location of the site discussed. She
      displayed an overlay of the current land use designation, neighborhood commercial, of the
      property, and the surrounding area. The site was also currently zoned A5, with commercial
      zoning to the west (CR) and south (CC).

      The item was a request to change the zoning of the property from A5 to CN. The proposed
      zoning designation of CN was compatible with the current land use designation. The
      zoning was requested to subdivide the property into two lots through a plat amendment.
      The lot was 9.8 acres in size. The rezone was being requested because there was a pending
      application for a charter school which was scheduled for the Planning Commission on
      Thursday, November 19, 2020.

      Ms. Pickering noted that charter schools were allowed in any zone according to state law.
      Because of this, regardless of if the area was rezoned to CN or remained A5 the charter
      school would be a permitted use. She then displayed pictures of the property from different
      angles. The Planning Commission voted unanimously on November 12, 2020, to forward
      a negative recommendation on the zoning map amendment.

5.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.



                                          Page 14 of 33
5.3   Scott Sabey spoke for the applicant. He said they were there for a simple rezone to match
      the general plan of the Rasmussen property from A5 to CN. He noted that the parcel did
      touch three vacant residential lots. To the east, there were 25 three-story buildings with
      225 units in them. To the south in the CC zone, there was a McDonald’s, Chick-fil-A, a
      car wash, and a credit union. To the west of the property was the CR zone with a gas station
      and mall. He described these features to make the point that while this parcel did touch
      three residential properties, it was surrounded by fairly intensive use. The application was
      simply to bring the property from the A5 to match the commercial uses of the surrounding
      area. He noted that they did want to divide the parcel into two portions. That was driven
      by the request to run 12230 south through to the roundabout that would force the property
      into two separate parcels and result in the lower parcel being less than five acres.

      He stated that when the item was brought before the Planning Commission, they thought it
      was a fairly simple and straight forward application based on the history and comments
      made in the past. However, there was a significant amount of discussion after the applicant
      was no longer addressing the presentation regarding traffic. He said that because of this he
      wanted to briefly go through the Draper Municipal Code section that was relevant to
      modifying the plan as it related to the parcel. That was section 9-5-060(E)(1) (a-e). He
      read and commented on the different sections of code as follows:
             a. When a proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and
                  policies of the city’s general plan;

                     i. Mr. Sabey noted that they were obviously seeking to match exactly what
                        the General Plan was.

             b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                the existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;

                     i. Mr. Sabey reiterated that all of the different commercial and intensive
                        uses in the surrounding area that touch three sides of the property meant
                        that the zone changes clearly matched the overall character of the area.

             c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;

                     i. Mr. Sabey said this had already been addressed.

             d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect the adjacent
                property;

                     i. Mr. Sabey said that he did not feel that this would adversely affect
                        adjacent properties in any way, except for possibly impacting the three
                        residential lots to the north. He said that anything other than leaving the
                        property as rows of corn would affect them. Ultimately, the landowner
                        was entitled to develop his property as all of the surrounding properties
                        had been developed.

                                         Page 15 of 33
             e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to roadways, parks, and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

                     i. Mr. Sabey said that the staff report stated that there were no concerns
                        regarding services. The one item that did come up following their
                        presentation to the Planning Commission was traffic. One of the
                        comments that were made was that the proposal for a rezone should not
                        come without also presenting a subsequent site plan and intended
                        development. He said they were following the City’s process of
                        bringing forward the rezone application. They were not hiding anything
                        as the development plan had been put forward. However, the difficulty
                        in addressing traffic in detail now was that it was not part of the rezone
                        amendment process. While there had been traffic studies and a
                        significant amount of time had been spent with staff and UDOT, that
                        was not all before the Council now, nor was it properly before you now,
                        so those items were difficult to address. He said there was concern about
                        the weight of traffic on 300 East. The development that was proposed
                        had committed to mitigating all traffic input which included spending
                        up to $1 million on roadways. Having spent a significant amount of
                        time with UDOT and staff to understand what the City thought was
                        necessary to be installed in the area, he felt the applicant had pulled
                        together all of the parties necessary to address the City’s problem. He
                        said that he phrased it that way because the problem had existed for
                        years. A warrant study was done in 2017 that talked about the failure of
                        the roads for an overload of traffic which had nothing to do with the
                        Rasmussens or their occupation of the property or anything to do with
                        the proposed development. However, in trying to address those for the
                        City and trying to help mitigate any additional traffic the development
                        would add, they have brought all of those problems to bear. He said that
                        the Council did not have the traffic studies before them because this step
                        was not the right time to do it. However, he would say that for the last
                        135 years the Rasmussen Family who has occupied that property and
                        been a good member of the community, has watched all the land around
                        them be developed and get what they wanted. Now that they were
                        surrounded by businesses and have seen residents move into what was
                        once farmland and benefit from homes being built, they feel as though
                        it is their turn to benefit from development as well.

5.4   Charles Wilkenson, resident 1284 South 580 East, said that he had attended many Council
      Meetings in the past on various items and always wanted to be a helpful influence. He said
      that the neighbors’ concern was the infrastructure. He felt as though a lot of people on
      12100 South were witnessing that development. He said that the development was
      something that was discussed when the apartments were put in. He said that because 12100

                                        Page 16 of 33
      South ran into those apartments they had tried to get those apartments to exit somewhere
      else than 300 East that is already taxed by traffic from the exit of St. Johns Juan Diego
      High School. The infrastructure had caused a lot of traffic to come down to 12100 and
      12200 South because they want to avoid all of that entanglement. He said that the speed
      tables that were put in had not been much of a deterrent. Although they were at the
      beginning since the roads were re-asphalted, the speed table is no longer as high, so people
      still speed down the road trying to save time. Unfortunately, half of 12100 South did not
      have any sidewalks. As a result, children were outside playing with people rushing around.
      He said that an integral part of the whole discussion was where would the traffic go because
      the infrastructure was not designed to handle the level of development. He was concerned
      that if it were a 1,000-student school and everyone was being dropped off and picked up,
      the additional traffic would not only overload 300 East but would increase the amount of
      traffic on 12100 South. He felt that there had to be a solution before moving forward.

5.5   Carl Sile, resident 12024 South 235 East. He said that he was the president of the Redmond
      Place Homeowners Association, a 34 home, single-family, low-density development to the
      north of the Rasmussen property. He said that their association did not support any
      commercial use of the property that was not low-density, single-family because of the
      traffic issues already addressed. He said that they already received significant traffic
      through their small, 34 home community from Juan Diego High School. He said it comes
      through the community to avoid the stop sign that was immediately south of the school.
      He said that there were not any speed bumps in his neighborhood which caused drivers to
      travel at high speeds. He said that they did not want any additional traffic caused by a new
      school, or any commercial development, supporting their opposition to the proposed re-
      zone.

5.6   Lisa Hansen, resident at 12057 South 300 East, lives five houses north of the Rasmussen
      property. She said that the proposed zone change was not necessary for what they intend
      to use the property for. The zone change was not needed to build the school. She said that
      by denying the zone change, the Council could ensure that neighbors were not shackled
      with additional traffic from the school, plus commercial development. She said that no one
      knew what would go in the three acres they wanted to subdivide. She said that it was super
      frustrating for residents to be in this position because last year, Richmond American came
      with a plan and requested a re-zone for residential development with 71 single-family
      homes. Most of the neighborhood was in support of that project. The Planning
      Commission and City Council denied the application because of density and parking
      concerns. She said that it would be very inconsistent for the Council to decide tonight to
      approve this zone change when the previous zone change was denied. Additionally, the
      city code required a substantial buffer between RA1 and RA2 properties and high-density
      usage. She said that if the Council looked at the map, there was no buffer anywhere. She
      stated that the section of the code was 9-10-080(E.I). She said if this commercial were
      allowed, residents would be boxed in on all sides with high-density usage. She said that
      she understood that the master plan allowed for that use, but the master plan also did not
      account for the high density that had been put in at Draper Village apartments across the
      street; Victoria Woods, the subsidized housing on 12200 South; nor the Day Dairy.
      Regarding the adequacy of facilities, she said there were not adequate roads and traffic

                                         Page 17 of 33
      controls in the area. All of the intersection was already strained. She said that although
      the applicant said that they were going to spend $1 million on road improvements, she
      wanted to know what they actually would be. She said that in one of the traffic studies she
      read, an important element of fixing the problem was widening 12300 South. That would
      be a massive undertaking. She wanted to know where all the money was going to come
      from and the priority to make those things happen. She said that residents were pretty
      powerless, and asked that the Council deny the zone change so that residents did not get
      both school and commercial traffic.

5.7   Christian Cole, resident at 11963 South 645 East, said that he echoed much of what had
      already been said by other residents. He wanted to add that the Juan Diego infrastructure
      did not support its parking. He said that even when they hold events, there would be cars
      parked up both sides of the street on 12100 South. He said there have been times when
      residents have not even been able to enter 12100 South because cars were parked up and
      down both sides. Because of this, neighbors have been required to drive around 700 East
      to be able to enter their neighborhood. He said that he was with the Hansens to deny the
      application because they do not need the zone change to build the charter school and the
      neighborhood was adamant to fight the development to the end. He said that the neighbors
      had been in 100% support of residential use of that property from the get-go. When the
      neighbors have been asked what they would like to see in that area, he said they have said
      again and again that they would like to see half-acre or third acre lots with a single-family
      residence. He said that just because it fits does not mean you should. Those who question
      the traffic should go grab themselves a shake a McDonalds at noon. He said, good luck
      when you are in the Post Office parking lot trying to get out of it. He said that it was absurd
      to try and shoehorn in a school there.

5.8   Jeff Hansen, resident at 12057 South 300 East. He also echoed what several other residents
      had expressed. He said that the thought of another school coming in so close to the
      neighborhood within 200 meters of his house was insane to him. He said they already had
      Juan Diego. He was not sure that they needed another school. He said that the Richmond
      America, 71 single-family plans had been mentioned. He wanted to reiterate Draper City
      Code regarding parking. In section 9-25-30(a) the code reads, “every land use established
      under the authority of this title shall have parking as required by this chapter. Each person
      who establishes any such land use shall provide the required parking. The establishment
      of land use shall include any change in uses and any increase in the capacity or intensity of
      an existing use.” He said that he knew that a parking study was done by Hale Engineering
      who said that 300 spaces would be sufficient, but there were only 200 usable parking spots,
      198 stalls. He said that was sufficient. However, because this was a charter school, there
      would not be any buses running, meaning that the high school kids that would be attending,
      would be driving their vehicles or be dropped off, creating a ratio of 3.1 high school
      students per stall. Compared with other schools around, Juan Diego comparatively had
      about 800 parking spots for not twice the student count. This did not make any sense.
      When Juan Diego holds an event, it brings back bad memories of 1-15 during the Olympics
      when it was really dangerous to be driving on the freeway. He said that he did not feel as
      though the proposed parking was sufficient. He felt that they either needed to forgo the
      three-acre commercial lot plan and deny the zone change or just be denied the plan all

                                          Page 18 of 33
       together due to the parking. He said that was one of the reasons why Richmond America
       was denied: because of parking.

5.9    Rebecca Dura, resident at 446 East 12000 South located in a home just north of property
       under discussion. She wanted to emphasize that she did not want to separate the rezoning
       issue with the intention of how the site was intended to be developed. She said the site was
       intended to be subdivided with a school placed there. She said that it was likely that the
       school could only afford to build there if the property was subdivided and the other portion
       of the property was sold for commercial use. She also wanted to point out that there was
       additional development going on at the park off of 12300 South. They were building out
       more at that location. She said when the traffic study from Hale Engineering was reviewed,
       it had holes in it because it did not consider the new park that was being built and the new
       additional commercial the area would take on if the rezoning was approved and subdivided.
       She stated that she was with the other homeowners; she did not support an additional K-12
       school on 300 East. She said that she was a charter school mom with her kids attending
       APA in Draper. She said that charter schools pull unique traffic from all over the valley.
       She said it was all commuting, with no buses. She said that when she sits in the carpool
       line, every single car has a single parent sitting in the vehicle picking up one or two kids,
       resulting in a high traffic volume during condensed periods. She said that when you put
       two K-12 schools together with peak times, and the peak that commercial draws in
       specifically in the afternoons, there would be an infrastructure disaster. She also noted that
       K-12 schools also have teenage drivers who were not a safe driving group. This caused the
       neighbors to be additionally concerned about traffic and safety. She said that many of the
       streets also lacked continuous sidewalks creating an additional safety hazard. Because of
       this, she claimed that residents were adversely affected. The proposal was not harmonious
       with existing development.

5.10   Tory Thornock, resident at 12121 Encampment Circle. She said that the corner of her
       property touches the corner of the Rasmussen property. She said that when they purchased
       two and a half years ago, they were told that the Rasmussens had an easement between
       them and the park at Day Dairy. She said that although she was not as eloquent nor as
       educated as her neighbors, that she was 100% behind what they were telling them. She
       noted how the roundabout would be taxed with the addition of charter school traffic and
       would not only cause 300 East to collapse, but also 12100, 12000, and 12300 South during
       peak hours. She said that she is a teacher at a charter school and had been a teacher at
       different districts in the state of Utah, in addition to being a parent with school-aged
       children. She said that a charter school on that lot would be a disaster that the Council
       would regret approving if they do. She said that regardless of if the school goes there, the
       zone change was a terrible idea. She said that the surrounding roads absolutely could not
       handle the zone change under consideration. She begged the Council to listen to what
       residents said. She said they were not approaching the item from anger or impulse, they
       simply understand more than a traffic study can communicate, how developing the land
       would impact the area.

5.11   Susan Nelson, resident at 12073 South 300 East, said that she lived four houses to the north
       of the land. She agreed with all of her neighbors. She said that she was a good friend with

                                          Page 19 of 33
       most of the people involved with the Rasmussen exchange. She said that they had been
       able to sell lots of other parts of the land. If it did not work out for the zone change, they
       would be able to sell it in time. She said she was not super worried about that for them,
       despite being great friends. She wanted to be a great neighbor as well. Ms. Nelson said
       that the master plan was also capable of changing. She said with the residential area to the
       north it might make more sense to consider residential in that area given the surrounding
       commercial development. This was what was hoped for by residents, despite being
       previously denied and have a lesser impact than the current proposal. She believed that the
       charter school would not be able to afford to build on the land if it were not subdivided,
       with the three acres sold off. Because of this, if the Council did not approve the zone
       change the school might not be able to build. This was her hope because she did not feel
       as though the area could support the school. She noted that she was also a charter school
       family. She said that if the Council did not change the zoning, the neighbors might be able
       to get something else with less impact to 300 East and the surrounding neighborhood.

5.12   Richard Miller, resident at 241 East 11989 South, echoed what had been said. He reiterated
       that 10 acres were not very much land for the amount of parking that would be needed for
       a school. Portioning off part of that would not create sufficient parking for the school. He
       said that if the footprint of the proposed school was compared with St. John the Baptist,
       there was little there comparatively. He also said that with his experience with the asphalt
       field—he had seven years of experience—one million dollars in road reparation and traffic
       mitigation was not very much money. It would probably cover the cost to go from the
       traffic circle to Day Dairy. He said that when you drive down 700 East at 12000 South
       there was the office building that was empty behind the Auto Zone. If there were already
       buildings empty, why did additional commercial space need to be added? Mr. Miller then
       voiced the safety of the neighbors’ children. He said that they were constantly seeing
       people zoom by without the area being patrolled. In regards to adding the fourth leg to the
       traffic circle, not only would it increase traffic on 300 East, but it would cause an increase
       in traffic from Day Dairy, as it was difficult to turn east onto 12300 South coming out of
       some of those locations. With the option, they would come down to the traffic circle and
       go out on 300 East, resulting in an additional increase in traffic. He noted that currently
       St. John the Baptist was zoned as agricultural. He said he would appreciate it if the Council
       would consider denying the rezone as it would cause havoc to the neighbors in the area.

5.13   Gary Fujimoto, resident at 12100 South 441 East, said that he was on the first street to the
       north. He said that his neighbor across the street on the south side’s backyard was adjacent
       to the property. He wanted to support what he had heard from his neighbors. He said that
       when he moved in in 2003, he was told that 300 East would never be punched through and
       that 12100 South would be a quiet street because 12200 South would go all the way through
       to bear the commercial traffic. He said it was very disappointing because they built their
       dream house and the area had not ended up being the neighborhood, they wanted to live in.
       He said that they loved their neighbors and community, but the area and traffic had not
       become what they planned. He wanted to support what neighbors had said and that
       anything to keep the traffic down was in the best interest of the residents.




                                          Page 20 of 33
5.14   Daniel Dura, resident at 446 East 12000 South, wanted to voice that he also felt that it was
       a bad use of the land to rezone the property. He said that it was disingenuous in the sense
       that the developer was treating these as separate ideas that the school was different than the
       zone change because the zone change was trying to go through before the school was
       developed. The neighbors could not prevent the school from being developed even though
       they did not want that to happen. However, the idea that there could be a school and
       additional commercial property was pretty outrageous. He said that area was failing. The
       idea that they were going to punch through 12200 South, while they were under
       construction while there was massive additional development at the park, did not take into
       consideration the traffic study. He said that Chick-fil-A was popular, serving something
       like 200 cars an hour during their peak time. He said that he understood it would not stay
       agricultural forever and that anything more than corn would create traffic. However, there
       was a difference between putting additional commercial property on 300 East and zoning
       it residential, that everyone in the neighborhood was okay with. They had been surrounded
       by commercial properties and high-density housing. This property was the last hope for
       residents to have some buffer from commercial development. He noted that there had been
       developers who wanted to put residential in that property. He said to look at the zone
       change at face value and to recognize that it did not seem to make sense at this time. He
       said that if low or medium-density residential were being proposed, the neighbors would
       approve it and were disappointed that the Richmond American development was not
       approved. He wanted it acknowledged that any change to the property to anything but
       residential would have a severe impact on their neighborhood.

5.15   Megan Menlove, resident in the new Cove Development. She wanted to speak on behalf
       of the neighborhood. She has to get through 11800 South near Juan Diego and has noticed
       how poor the traffic flow is in this area during peak hours already. She could only imagine
       what would happen if another K-12 school was added. Ms. Menlove was an administrator
       of a high school who knows how teenagers drive. She felt it would be ridiculous to add a
       school that close to Juan Diego and thought it would impact traffic on the north side of the
       school. She wanted to speak against the rezoning and in support of those who live in that
       area. She did not feel it was a good idea for the City as a whole or the neighborhood.

5.16   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

5.17   Mr. Sabey said that it was difficult to listen to some of the public comments when they
       called the applicant disingenuous when the applicant was following the process of Draper
       City ordinances. They were required to make the rezoning application before the site plan.
       That was the order outlined. They were not hiding the site plan. It was scheduled to go
       before the Planning Commission the following Thursday. All of the comments heard
       revolved around the site plan which would not be addressed until Thursday. He said that
       he had a problem with the fact that the public comment addressed a traffic study that the
       Council did not have. The public comment made several erroneous comments about the
       traffic study, which he cannot set forth and show the Council because they do not yet have
       it. He said that the application was based on the City’s master plan that was less than a
       year old. He said that he thought some people had the impression that circumstances had
       changed to make the area remain residential. However, the City’s master plan was updated

                                          Page 21 of 33
       on November 19, 2019. The City did not want residential and wanted commercial, which
       is why the application was brought forward. He said to go through the traffic study would
       not be effective for the Council because they did not have it in front of them. The
       complaints made about traffic could not be addressed without money being spent. The City
       would not pay to fix the problems unless everyone was going to agree to a significant
       increase in taxes. He said that perhaps residents were not aware of it, but that part of the
       way that these problems get fixed was as a result of the development process. New
       infrastructure cannot go in without the development that offsets the cost of the
       infrastructure. In response to the comment that $1 million does not cover much, Mr. Sabey
       said that his client had developed over 50 charter schools. He said they would not develop
       one in the location if it were going to be a disaster as it would hurt their business. They
       knew what they were doing. They planned to bring in UDOT to help cover the costs of
       infrastructure improvements. He said that the plan for the client was not to profit by
       subdividing and selling a portion of the property as commercial development. The City
       wanted 12300 South to go through which divides the property and the Rasmussens were
       retaining the remaining portion. The traffic study did provide for more than 300 stalls.
       Under the site plan and when it was brought before the Planning Commission and the City
       if the project did not meet the required stalls, 311, then the City could deny it. However,
       talking about traffic issues now was not appropriate because the Council did not have the
       materials. He said that his clients had been working for eight months with the City and
       UDOT to figure out how to mitigate problems and get the infrastructure in place. He said
       that would be achieved through the development. He said his client was dedicated to
       mitigating any traffic impact caused by their development and would help solve existing
       problems. He said that the matter before the Council was simply the rezone to match the
       general plan.

5.18   Councilmember T. Lowery said that the general plan to which Mr. Sabey was speaking
       was not a document that was set in stone. She said that it was simply a guideline. She said
       that his claim that it was something that the City had to follow was simply not true. She
       said that she was also curious about his request for the zone change. She said that it had
       been noted several times by residents that the school could go in any zone. She said that
       as a result, what she is led to believe is that what the zone change is truly about is the
       commercial development, not truly about building the school. Everyone knows that the
       applicant is already legally allowed to build a school wherever they want. It was her
       impression that what he was requesting tonight was two adjacent high intensity uses. She
       asked if staff could pull up the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) 9-5-060. She said
       that her concerns lie with subsections d and e: the adverse impacts on the adjacent
       properties and adequately of the facilities, namely the roadways.

       Mr. Sabey said that the master plan or general plan was not set in stone. He said that he
       did not believe that he had implied that. He apologized if he gave that impression. What
       he meant to say was that the City had indicated that it wanted the area zoned as
       Neighborhood Commercial and that was the application brought forward.




                                          Page 22 of 33
       Councilmember T. Lowery clarified that the master plan indicates that the area could be
       neighborhood commercial if they so desired. The area can be whatever they want it to be.
       She felt that it should be residential, just not high-density residential.

       Mr. Sabey said that was fine. The City indicated that it wanted residential then that would
       have been the application brought forward. He said that his point was simply that they
       were trying to do what the City had indicated. He said that as a member of the public, he
       feels that he should be able to reasonably rely on the representations the City makes on its
       webpage and the things that staff says. More to the point, he said it was fine for the City
       to make it residential. He said that they could build in residential.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that the applicant had not asked for residential, they asked
       for commercial. Mr. Sabey said that was because that was what the City had designated
       the area and the last time a residential application was brought to the City it was denied.
       He said the master plan showed the area as neighborhood commercial so that is what the
       applicant brought forth. He said the City could designate it anything they wanted; the
       applicant would still be able to build a school on it.

       Councilmember T. Lowery agreed. She wanted to know why they were requesting a zone
       change when they could build a school tomorrow. Mr. Sabey said that the City wants the
       road through the property. That cuts the lot in half. One half of the lot would be five acres
       or more, so it met the current zoning. The other half, once the road the City wanted was
       installed…

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that the City wanted a road because of all of the traffic that
       the applicant proposed to bring to the area.

       Mr. Sabey said that the City wanted the road. After all, if you looked at 12230, it dead-ends
       into a field because it was intended to go through and tie in at a four-way circle. That
       would divide the lot into two portions and the bottom portion would be less than five acres
       making it an illegal subdivision. The suggestion was made to his client to come in for a
       commercial neighbor zone application because the other lot did not require a minimum of
       five acres. If the master plan showed the area as one-acre residential then the application
       would have been for a rezone to one-acre residential. The applicant did not care. They had
       no plan to develop the subdivision. They will not own the southern portion. The
       application was done as it was because that is what the City map said. He said that they
       could build in residential. If it had said residential that is the application, they would have
       made.

5.19   Councilmember F. Lowry wanted to make sure to recognize the Rasmussen Family. He
       said that it is clear that they have been a great neighbor to the community. He appreciated
       the contributions that they had made to the City of Draper and had been a great neighbor
       to all of us. He wondered if staff could help clarify for the Council the proposed use.

       Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, stated for clarification what was done
       in 2019 to update Draper City’s general plan. She said that in 2019 staff went through and

                                           Page 23 of 33
       conducted an analysis of problem areas where the built environment did not match the land
       use map. What they did not do was go through each undeveloped vacant parcel and ask
       that the City Council what the land use should be. The current land use map represents
       what has been assigned to the property for years, before Day Dairy and the surrounding
       development that had been realized around the particular parcel.

       She said that Mr. Sabey brought up the fact that the staff, her staff, had discussed the current
       zoning application. The reason behind this was because the parcel as it stood could not be
       split into two lots. She said that she knew this addressed Thursday’s application, but that
       it bore clarification. The school would like to purchase the northern portion of the parcel.
       The southern portion of the parcel, they did not want to purchase. Without a rezone, as the
       Council was being asked to look at this evening, they would not be able to make the split
       because A5 requires a five-acre parcel. Splitting the 9.8 acres in the manner it would need
       to be split would result in the southern parcel being under three acres.

5.20   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was perplexed about the request for the rezone
       because the school could still be developed. He wanted to support comments made by
       Councilmember T. Lowery about having never received a question about how he thought
       that area should be developed. He did not understand that claim that the City had indicated
       a preference in how the area developed. He recognized that he was new to the Council, but
       he certainly would not have encouraged the applicant to put forth this zone change. He
       said that what he found interesting was that the applicant outlined the issues that the
       Council had: the area was surrounded by high-density housing and the failures shown in
       the 2017 traffic study. He hoped that the applicant could appreciate that it was those very
       same issues that the Council considered.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that the Council supports their right to do something with
       the property. As another resident noted, the property will ultimately be developed. She
       felt that there were possibilities of development that could go in the property that would
       not adversely affect residents.

5.21   Councilmember Green moved to deny Ordinance #1465, Rasmussen Family
       Commercial Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the
       motion.

5.22   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor of denial. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0    Public Hearing: Ordinance #1464, Rockwell Point Text Amendment (Legislative
       Action), a request by Todd Amberry representing Rockwell Point, LLC to amend the
       permitted land uses to the existing Major Freeway Arterial Frontage Road (MARF)
       zoning district. The changes will amend Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
       Section 9-11-110. The proposed changes would apply citywide.

6.1    Maryann Pickering, planner, explained this was a text amendment to change the use table
       found in section 9-11-110. Currently, four uses were not permitted in the zone. The request

                                           Page 24 of 33
      was to change those uses to permitted. The four uses were a car wash, convenience store,
      gasoline service station, and restaurant. There would be no changes to the development
      standards for the zone. On the November 12, 2020, Planning Commission meeting, they
      gave a positive recommendation on the item with a 4-1 vote.

6.2   Todd Amberry, the applicant, said that when the project was approved a little over a year
      ago, they did not have the same intentions due to COVID or know who the users would be.
      After going through the uses and the desired uses to where the market for some of the
      parcels had changed and demanded that the use tables be expanded to a restaurant, carwash,
      and a gas station.

6.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

6.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1464, Rockwell Point Text
      Amendment. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinances #1468 and #1469, Shadow Mountain Subdivision Zoning
      Map and Land Use Map Amendment (Legislative Action), a request by Sean Shah
      and David Johnson for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment from the RA1 zone to
      a split zoning of RA2 and R3, and to amend the Land Use Map on a portion of the
      property from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium Density
      designation.

7.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg, planner, said that the applicant had requested to amend the land
      use and zoning map for a 0.29-acre property located at 671 East 13800 South. The zoning
      was RA1. The land use designation was residential low-medium density. With the
      application, the applicant requested the residential medium land use designation. He said
      that there was not any medium land use density contiguous to the property but there was
      across the street. He said that the map was created by the GIS division. As part of the
      staff’s initial review process, the GIS division takes a look at the legal description submitted
      by the applicant to make sure they were correct. With this item being a split zone, he had
      the GIS division draw up the map to provide a better visual for the public meetings. The
      back property was requested to be rezoned as RA2 from RA1. The front property was
      requested to be rezoned R3. He said that the RA1 zoning designation requires a minimum
      lot size of 40,000 square feet. The R2 requires 20,000 square feet. The front area would
      have to be rezoned R3 to meet minimum zoning requirements. He said that if the rezone
      and land use map were approved tonight, a separate subdivision would need to be submitted
      by the applicant to create two lots. At that time, access for the RA2 area (orange) would
      be reviewed under the subdivision application for access off of the main lot. At the
      Planning Commission meeting on October 22, 2020, the Planning Commission voted
      approval with a vote of 5 to 0.



                                          Page 25 of 33
      Mr. Van Ekelenbug noted that following the Planning Commission meeting he received
      one public comment from Mr. Stevens who lived on Shadow Mountain Lane. His concern
      was that having an additional lot would create development problems for residents that had
      been on the lane longer. There were also several residents at the Planning Commission
      meeting who spoke in support of the application.

7.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked what comments were made by the residents. Mr. Van
      Ekelenburg said that the residents in support stated their support. These included Brad (last
      name unclear on the audio) who lived up the street from the parcel who had a previous
      application recently. The residents next door also voiced their support. He believed that
      those residents intended to speak during the public comment portion of the item.

7.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked what the residents’ specific concern was. Mr. Van
      Ekelenburg said the resident had stated that he was one of the first residents on the private
      lane and that his concern was that some of the other residents further up on the private lane
      wouldn’t be able to develop properly because once more lots were added to the private lane
      then street improvements were required, including widening the private lane.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Van Ekelenburg saw that as a real issue. Mr. Van
      Ekelenburg said that the Draper Code does say that when you increase the number of lots
      on a private lane, the width of the road does need to be increased. The improvements
      include curb and gutter, as well as road widening, making them pretty expensive.

7.4   Councilmember Vawdrey asked the number of lots that can be on the lane before the
      improvements were triggered. Jennifer Jastremsky, a planner, stated that the Council just
      looked at modifying the private lane standards at the last meeting. They increased the width
      standards to those lanes slightly. For five lots or less the lane was required to be 25 feet
      wide, up to 10 lots the lane has to be 31 feet wide, and then for up to 20 lots, the road width
      is required to be 37 feet wide. She said that the entrance to Shadow Mountain was about
      30 feet in width currently. She thought that there were four or five lots on the lane. As
      they added additional lots, the increase in lane width would have to occur. She said,
      however, that lot development was on a first come first serve basis. As more applications
      came forward, staff would evaluate the lane to make sure it complied with the code.

7.5   Sean Shah, applicant, said that he appreciated the Council. He said that he was excited to
      do two subdivisions in Draper and help keep the City’s pristine look. He said the
      subdivision had been done before. He ran some statistics, and there was a 67% chance that
      if you pick a lot on the north side of 13800 there was a probability that it wasn’t going to
      be up to code as most of the lots were grandfathered in.

7.6   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

7.7   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinances #1468 and 1469, Shadow
      Mountain subdivision Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment. Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

                                          Page 26 of 33
7.8   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #20-53, amending the current Fiscal Year 2021 Budget.

8.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, explained that this was the second reopening of the fiscal
      year 2021 budget. He said that there were seven items for approval with the reopened
      budget:

             1. FY21-24 (Police Wing 3rd Floor Remodel): The Police Department requested
                funding to remodel the third-floor police wing. These changes would be in the
                detective division. They have estimated that it would cost $20,000 to remodel
                and add additional growth for a conference and interview room. The money
                would come from sales tax revenue.

             2. FY21-25 (South Valley Chamber): The South Valley Chamber had several
                programs that they wanted to continue through June of 2021. The programs
                included Women In Business, Small Business Board, and other programs. They
                request a $25,000 budget amendment for these programs that would also come
                from sales tax revenues.

             3. FY21-26 (Vacation Buyback): Due to conditions with COVID-19 there was a
                need to keep employees at work. As a result, management approved a one-time
                buyback of vacation time of employees that would exceed the annual pay over
                amount under City policy. Employees at the end of the calendar year have a
                maximum amount that they can buy back. This would allow the City to buy out
                some of this time. The cost of this was estimated at $125,000 that would also
                come from sales tax revenues.

             4. FY21-27 (Student Wi-Fi): This funding request came from the Canyon School
                District, as discussed in the previous week’s study session, to increase internet
                access and remote learning capabilities. The project was estimated to cost
                $15,000. Again, the request would be funded by sales tax revenues.

             5. FY21-28 (Surveyor): Staff identified the need to contract with a surveyor to
                identify property lines adjacent to Draper City open space. The project was
                estimated to cost $50,000 with funding coming from sales tax revenue.

             6. FY21-29 (Council Room Microphones): Staff requested to upgrade the
                microphones in the City Council room so that multiple microphones could be
                used simultaneously. The project was estimated to cost $60,000 with the
                funding coming from sales tax revenue.

             7. FY21-30 (Merit Increases): In the original budget that the City was presented
                for FY2021, 18% of the normal budget was taken out as a COVID precaution

                                        Page 27 of 33
                 to balance out the fiscal year with the anticipation of losing revenue. However,
                 the first couple of sales tax revenues had come in about 22% higher than
                 budgeted. The reduction had not yet been seen, so they were looking to put a
                 3% merit increase back in the budget for employees that was pro-rated from
                 December to June. This would total $218,000 that would be added back into
                 the budget and funded through sales tax revenues.

      Mr. Wylie noted that all of the items were funded by sales tax revenues which had come in
      22% higher than originally budgeted.

8.2   Councilmember Green expressed thanks to Mr. Wylie. He clarified that all of the items
      were covered by sales taxes. Mr. Wylie said that was correct. He said that in the first two
      months the City had received about $460,000 higher than had been budgeted for those
      months. He said that at this point they felt as though the sales tax revenue was not dropping
      the 18% that they had originally taken out. He explained that the original budget took out
      about $2.5 million in sales tax revenues for precautions. However, so far it was coming in
      okay.

      Councilmember Green said that he was happy that they were doing the merit increase. He
      wondered if that was a 3% ongoing obligation. In Mr. Wylie’s projections for next year,
      he asked if the City would be able to sustain it. Mr. Wylie said that throughout the state of
      Utah sales tax revenues were coming in much higher than anticipated. If the sales tax
      continued at a level pace, they would be able to afford the merit increase ongoing.

8.3   Councilmember F. Lowry said, “Great job!” He appreciated the vacation buy back to
      recognize the employees who have worked the extra time.

8.4   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she agreed; there was a lot of important stuff in this
      round of budget amendments. She appreciated that there was stuff for the schools here.

8.5   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

8.6   Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #20-53, amending the current
      Fiscal Year 2021 Budget. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

8.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1467, City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text
      Amendment (Legislative Item), a request by Draper City for a Text Amendment to
      amend Sections 9-5-045 and 17-1- 085 of Draper City Municipal Code. This
      application is known as the City Initiated Notice of Continued Item Text Amendment.

9.1   Todd Draper, planner, said that the item was previously introduced to the Council by Mr.
      Dobbins in the study session. It was intended as a text change to help eliminate the

                                         Page 28 of 33
      confusion the public experienced when an item was continued after the public hearing was
      closed. He said it was a simple change to sections 9-5-045 and 17-1-085 to add a line of
      text. This line would indicate that no additional notice would be required if an item is
      continued as an action item after a public hearing has been closed. Notice would still be
      given on the agenda for the meeting. At the November 12, 2020, Planning Commission
      meeting, a positive recommendation was forwarded to the Council with a vote of 5-0.

9.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

**    Mr. Nichols and Nancy Nichols stated that they intended to comment on the previous item,
      the Shadow Mountain Subdivision. They said that they were not able to unmute themselves
      and that they were finally informed to use the raise your hand.

      Mayor Walker said that the Shadow Mountain item had already been approved by the
      Council. Ms. Nichols said that they had not been allowed to speak when they had already
      registered to speak on the item. Mayor Walker said that there was nothing that could be
      done about it at this point, as the item had already been voted on. Ms. Nichols stated that
      she did not feel as though that was fair.

      Mr. Nichols said that there had been two meetings about the property that surrounds their
      home on three sides. Mayor Walker said that the Council had already voted and approved
      the item. He said that he was happy to give them three minutes to make a public comment
      but wanted them to know that it could not be considered in the vote because the vote had
      already been taken. However, a Councilmember might be spurred to bring it back. He said
      that was as fair of a remedy as he could offer. He said that meetings were held via Zoom
      because of COVID-19 and said there were public difficulties.

      Brew Nichols, a resident, said that they were concerned about the widening of the road
      issue. He said that they had been told by the surveyor that it would mean 17 additional
      feet, which would encroach on their property to provide that additional road width and curb
      and gutter. He said that they felt as though they had been shut out of the entire process and
      that they had not been helped to feel comfortable with what was going on.

      Ms. Nichols said that they had already been in process with something with the City to add
      to the garage, which included what was going to be widened on the road. The project
      happened before they knew that Sean was working with Davey.

      Mr. Nichols said that from their part they would like someone who has the authority to
      make decisions to talk with them to work things out with them, be that through a sit-down
      meeting or a Zoom meeting. They felt as though the process was not very democratic.

      Mayor Walker reiterated that the Council had already been voted on. He said that with the
      pandemic the order was that people could either make a public comment online through
      the link or in the public forum. He said that there was always the opportunity to comment
      by email through the link system tied to agendas. He said that in the future that if they
      wanted to make sure their public comment got through he recommended using the link so

                                         Page 29 of 33
       that the text comment could make it into the record and minutes and the Council was able
       to review the comment.

9.3    Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

9.4    Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1467, City Initiated Notice of
       Continued Item Text Amendment. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

9.5    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1466, adopting a Temporary Land Use Regulation
       permitting the use of Tents and Canopies for Temporary Restaurant Dining Space
       (Legislative Action), a request by Draper City for a temporary land use regulation
       permitting the use of tents and canopies for restaurant dining space. This application
       is city wide and not associated with a single site.

10.1 Todd Draper, a planner, said that the text amendment was an attempt to increase the tools
     available to help the City through the pandemic. This was specifically detailed towards
     restaurants that had lost roughly 50% of their capacity due to the new seating and distancing
     requirements. The proposed regulation would be temporary, limited to six months. It
     would apply to legally operating restaurants in Draper City with an active business license
     and approved indoor seating area. Application requirements include (a) Each individual
     restaurant must make an application; (b) A provided site and seating plan; (c) Tents and
     canopies could not impede pedestrian or emergency access; (d) Property owner permission
     required; and (e) The City would review applications within 15 days

       In regards to the location tents/canopies: (a) Must be on the same site or on adjacent
       property within 250 feet of the restaurant; (b) Must be on asphalt or concrete surfaces; (c)
       May be in a parking area; (d) May not be in the public right of way; (e) May not encroach
       into landscaping; and (f) ADA parking stalls and facilities to remain accessible

       Size would be limited to: (a) No more than two tents/canopies; (b)Total combined size may
       not exceed the square footage of existing indoor dining space; and (c) May not cover more
       than 15% of required parking stalls for restaurant

       Other operational requirements included that: (a) Interior dining space must continue to be
       utilized; (b) Restaurants may not share tent or canopy with other restaurants; and (c) Use
       of tents or canopies still subject to other agreements and regulations such as lease
       agreements and State Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

       Anchoring requirements included that: (a) all tents or canopies be secured in case of wind;
       (b) they must be anchored by water, cement or sand barrels, no stakes; and (c) setbacks are
       per International Fire Code and International Building Code.




                                          Page 30 of 33
       In regards to fire safety tents/canopies: (a) must comply with International Fire Code; (b)
       required a permit from the Fire Marshal; (c) must provide construction documents and
       structural calculations for Fire Marshal review; (d) have marked fire extinguishers and
       marked exits; (e) require an emergency evacuation plan; (f) have combustible waste stored
       away from tent or canopy; and (g) prohibit smoking inside the tent.

       He reiterated that the proposed regulation was intended for six months unless repealed by
       the Council before then. Any tents or canopies would be required to be removed within
       five days of repeal.

10.2   Councilmember F. Lowry said he felt that it was a great thing for the City to do to help
       businesses.

10.3   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she supported the initiative and that she was grateful
       to Christina Oliver for looking into the item. She knows that many businesses have
       struggled to maintain normal customer levels when they cannot have them all inside. She
       felt that this was a creative and innovative way to support local businesses.

10.    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1466, adopting a
       Temporary Land Use Regulation. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

10.    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

11.0   Council/Manager Reports

12.0   Adjournment

12.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.             Councilmember Vawdrey
       seconded the motion.

12.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

12.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:56 p.m.




                                         Page 31 of 33
From:
Kathy Anderson
14389 Lapis Drive, Draper

To:
Mayor, City Council, and Departments,

Thank you

   •   Thank you for establishing this virtual mode of communication in City
       Council meetings and inviting the public to participate.
   •   Thank you for continuous documentation and publishing City documents.
   •   Thank you for distributing Draper City local business coupons to residents
       to use at participating Draper City businesses.
   •   Thank you for maintaining critical services during a difficult time. I was
       especially grateful for my garbage bin to be emptied today. I understand
       residential garbage removal is more of a challenge, now, and am glad for
       Draper City's commitment to public health.
   •   Thank you for corresponding and meeting with me about my safety concerns
       about the traffic control device removal in September at the crest of the hill
       at the intersection of Vestry and Henry Day/Debrian Way near my home and
       for giving me access to the ruling and guiding texts Draper City complies
       with when making traffic flow changes.


About Vestry

Quantitatively analyzing the vertical curve per the Policy on Geometric Design of
     Highways and Streets should objectively answer the question of safety at the
     intersection of Vestry and Henry Day/Debrian Way; whether the geometric
     context, alone, at that intersection, is sufficient per the ruling and guiding
     texts to protect pedestrian and vehicular road users at their current recorded
     median and mid-upper percentile velocities, or whether those ruling and
     guiding texts dictate or suggest the use of traffic control devices to
     compensate for significant safety concerns inherent in that geometric
     context. The engineering study by WCEC used as justification for the
     removal of stop signs on Vestry did not analyze the vertical curve per the
     Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets and, therefore,
     neglected to determine whether the vertical curve's curvature limits the sight


                                    Page 32 of 33
      distance of road users to a degree that poses a hazard that a stop sign would
      mitigate.

Questions

Will you please direct me to where I can access a street design sheet for the
      vertical curve on Vestry spanning between Bangerter parkway and Salina or
      at least the full length of the vertical curve? If there is no design sheet, is
      there a table recording the characterizing parameters of the curve: vertical
      offset at the VPI, sight distance, length of curve, percent algebraic difference
      in grades, and rate of vertical curvature? Would these design factors be in
      City documents or County documents?

Also, I look forward to the upcoming results of the recent Vestry speed study near
       that intersection. Do you have an idea when that data will be ready to share?

I do not need to take videoconference time at tonight's meeting. However, I do
      respectfully request my comments and questions be read and recorded in
      official minutes and look forward to a response whether through e-mail or
      phone call or future meeting discussion or minutes.

Thank you,

Kathy Anderson




                                    Page 33 of 33
