                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                             December 7, 2020

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: December 17, 2020

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Kohler Fence CUP–Conditional Use Permit Request
          Application No.:  USE-1095-2020
          Applicant:        Braxton Roth, representing Tri-City Construction
          Project Location: 1197 E 13200 S
          Current Zoning:   RA2 – Residential Agricultural Zone
          Acreage:          1.38 Acres (Approximately 60,113ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2 (Residential
                            Agricultural, 40,000ft² minimum lot size) zone regarding a request to
                            increase fence height from 6-feet to 8-feet alone the east property line.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately 1.38 acres
located on the north side of 13200 south, at approximately 1197 E 13200 S (Exhibit B). The property is
currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for
an increased fence height to 8-feet in a single family residential zone deviating from the Draper City
Municipal Code (DCMC) maximum height of 6-feet.

The subject parcel was originally 2 separate parcels created in 1984. The applicant has recently completed
a boundary line adjustment combining two separate parcels that make up the property. The historic
parcels contained the main buildable parcel and the driveway parcel.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential Low/Medium
Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




Kohler Fence CUP                                                                App. # USE-1095-2020
Conditional Use Permit Request                         1
The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately two dwelling
unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 “The
purpose of the RA1 and RA2 zones is to foster low density development with little impact on its
surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the city's semirural areas;
and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life, including the keeping of limited
numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these zones is intended to be detached single-family
dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial uses”. The entire property is
surrounded on all sides with the RA2 zoning designation.

Fencing. The entire property is fenced with wood fencing approximately five feet in height, and the main
drive entrance is gated. This request is to extend the fence height from 6-feet to 8-feet in height along the
east side of the property adjacent to Summit Academy, a charter school. DCMC Section 9-27-080(A)(2):
When located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, not including trees,
shall not exceed six fee (6') in height unless a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit or as
otherwise permitted in this title. Additionally the existing chain link fence on the school property will
remain (Exhibit E).




Kohler Fence CUP                                                                   App. # USE-1095-2020
Conditional Use Permit Request                        2
Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request
is found in DCMC Section 9-5-080(E). This section depicts the standard of review for such requests as:

          E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
              conditional use permit:
           1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where the
              particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
           2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate reasonably
              anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may include conditions
              concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of
              operation, and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such
              conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
           3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
              substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
              applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
           4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a conditional
              use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or denied because
              reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with applicable standards:
                a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and requirements of
                    the city's general plan and this title;
                b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
                c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                    development in the vicinity;
                d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
                f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation access,
                    drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open space, fire
                    protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
                g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions such as
                    noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use; and
                h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the city,
                    the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
           5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably needed
              to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Conditional Use
Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Kohler Fence CUP                                                                   App. # USE-1095-2020
Conditional Use Permit Request                        3
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Building, and Planning Divisions
                    are satisfied throughout the development of the fence, including permitting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
                    anticipated detrimental effects.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by
Braxton Roth, representing Tri-City Construction, application USE-1095-2020, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Braxton Roth, representing Tri-City Construction, application USE-1095-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020, and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested by Braxton
Roth, representing Tri-City Construction, application USE-1095-2020, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated December 7, 2020.




Kohler Fence CUP                                                                   App. # USE-1095-2020
Conditional Use Permit Request                         4
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      None

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      None

Building Division Review.

       1.      None
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
         EXHIBIT E
FENCE DIAGRAM AND LOCATION
    TYLER KOHLER CONDITIONAL USE EXHIBIT
                                                                 10   0          10      20       30



                                                                          Scale 1" = 20 ft




                                                                 *                      *
*
*




                                                                                        6/23/2020
                         CONDITIONAL USE EXHIBIT   TYLER KOHLER PROPERTY
                                                                                             1"=20'
                          13151 SOUTH 1185 EAST     KMD        KMD
                                                                                        1 OF 1
                           DRAPER CITY, UTAH
