                                         ORDINANCE NO. 1426

         AN ORDINANCE AMENDING PORTIONS OF CHAPTER 9-18G OF THE
         DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE AS IT PERTAINS TO THE LONE
         PEAK COMMERCIAL SPECIAL DISTRICT.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts; and

       WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity;
and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted Land Use and Development Code to guide
development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise some of the standards
for the Lone Peak Commercial Special District zoning district within the Land Use and Development
Code; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.     Findings. In adopting these changes to the DCMC, the City Council finds: a)
that Section 9-5-060(e) provides for and outlines the process for amending the text of the DCMC; b) that
this text amendment does not compromise any of the five factors listed in Section 9-5-060(E)(2); and c)
that the proposed text change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the City’s General
Plan.

         Section 2.     Amendment. Changes to Chapter 9-18G as set forth in Exhibit “A” attached
hereto, is hereby adopted and incorporated in the regulation and development applications for properties
within the City Boundaries.

         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.




Ordinance No. 1426                                    1                          Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                            Zoning Text Amendment
      PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS ______ DAY OF _______________, 2020.

                                        DRAPER CITY


                                        _____________________________
                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder


VOTE TAKEN:                                  YES                          NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember T. Lowery

Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1426                  2                  Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                  Zoning Text Amendment
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                   PROPOSED TEXT CHANGES

                     The following changes are made to applicable sections noted.
                     Current sections not modified below are not affected and shall
                                           not be repealed.




Ordinance No. 1426                                 3                      Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                     Zoning Text Amendment
9-18G-050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The LPCSD provides design guidelines for the buildings, landscaping, parking, lighting and
signage located within the district boundaries. The LPCSD is a master planned mixed use
development containing approximately one hundred (100) acres of developed and undeveloped
land along the 12300 South arterial and Lone Peak Parkway arterial corridors. The schematic
site plan of the LPCSD is depicted in section 9-18G-090, exhibit A of this article. The master
plan provides for various potential retail, office and industrial development uses in designated
areas of the LPCSD in accordance with the development standards set forth in this section. The
conceptual locations of these potential uses are depicted in section 9-18G-090 exhibit A-1 of this
article. The retail phase is located on the north side of 12300 South. This phase has two (2) pad
sites, plus an existing retail building of approximately sixteen thousand three hundred (16,300)
square feet. The master planned park may also include office uses incorporated into the retail or
industrial phases of the LPCSD so long as they adhere to the use and design guidelines
established herein. North of the retail phase there are currently five (5) office and warehouse
buildings totaling approximately one hundred ninety two thousand (192,000) square feet. At
approximately 12050 South Lone Peak Parkway there exists one 285,000-square foot
manufacturing building which building, together with the related parcel, shall be referred to
herein as the "manufacturing building" and one 102,000-square foot warehouse building which
building, together with the related parcel, shall be referred to herein as the "warehouse building".
At approximately 331 West 11950 there exists one (1) one hundred twenty two thought
(122,000) square foot manufacturing building which building, together with the related parcel,
shall be referred to herein as the “Manufacturing Building-Wasatch”, and one (1) seventy
thousand (70,000) square foot manufacturing/warehouse building referred to herein as
“Manufacturing/Warehouse Building.”

The balance of the land is currently undeveloped. All buildings within the LPCSD, other than
the manufacturing building and the warehouse building, the Manufacturing Building-Wasatch
and the Manufacturing/Warehouse Building shall comply with the following development
standards:

9-18G-050(A):
      1.     Retail/Office Phase:
                     b.   Where an elevation of a building faces 12300 South, a minimum of ten percent
                          (10%) of the wall facing 12300 South shall be made up of or covered with an
                          element of interest. Examples of elements of interest include, but are not limited
                          to: concrete masonry units, ledge stone, rock, brick, brick veneer, architectural
                          grade concrete, or other unique elements needed to conform to a user's
                          specifically established architectural design standards in other markets.
                     c.   Preferred design elements for retail include:
                          (10)    Architectural grade exposed exterior concrete.
                          (11)    Over 50% glass wall facing at least one street, measured
                                  horizontally.
                          (12)    Brick veneer.
                          (13)    Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixtures at main
                                  entries.
                          (14)    Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.



Ordinance No. 1426                                    4                         Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                           Zoning Text Amendment
                     d.     Preferred design elements for office include:
                            (1)     Architectural metal paneling.
                            (2)     Architectural cement paneling.
                            (3)     Ceramic tile cladding or architectural concrete finish.
                            (4)     Decorative canopy at lobby entry.
                            (5)     Architectural grade exterior wall mounted light fixture.
                            (6)     Architectural concrete.
                            (7)     Multi-story glass.
                            (8)     Masonry or brick veneer.
                            (9)     Decorative metal trim.
                            (10) EIFS field.
                            (11) Exterior siding, rain screen, cladding.

                     d.e.   No building shall be larger than one hundred sixty thousand (160,000)
                            square feet.
                     e.f.   The minimum front setback from the property line shall be thirty feet
                            (30').
                     f.     For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of retail space, there shall be a
                            minimum of five (5) parking stalls.
                     i.g.   Dumpsters shall be kept within a decorative masonry or concrete
                            enclosure designed to be compatible with the overall project architecture.

         2.          Industrial Phase:
                     a.      All buildings shall share a similar architectural theme as depicted in the
                             drawings incorporated as section 9-18G-090, exhibits C2, C3 and C4 of
                             this article. Design elements shall be used to add interest on the front and
                             side of buildings with particular sensitivity to maintaining efficient
                             business operations. Color schemes shall be neutral earth tones. The
                             design themes may also accommodate other unique elements needed to
                             conform to a user's specifically established architectural design standards
                             in other markets.
                     f.e.    No building shall be taller than sixty feet (60'), measured from the finished
                             grade. Finished grade calculations and elevations shall not be calculated
                             from any applicable truck dock well elevations that penetrate deeper than
                             the typical finished grades. Instead, elevations shall be calculated from
                             the remaining finished grade of the site, e.g., a car parking stall elevation.
                     g.f.    All mechanical equipment shall be screened from view, either by
                             enclosure or parapet wall.
                     h.g.    Dumpsters shall be screened from view by concrete screen walls
                             incorporated within the truck courts or enclosed within a concrete or
                             masonry enclosure designed to be compatible with the overall project
                             architecture.
                     i.h.    Outside storage, where allowed, shall be located no closer than one
                             hundred fifty feet (150') from any street (with the exception of the Shasta
                             building located at 264 West which shall be no closer than eighteen feet
                             from curb back of street) and shall be contained within a secured


Ordinance No. 1426                                     5                        Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                           Zoning Text Amendment
                            minimum eight foot (8') vinyl coated chainlink fence with vinyl slats or
                            masonry, metal, or concrete wall, designed to visually occlude the stored
                            items from the street.

9-18G-050(B):
      6.     Plants Lists: Plants shall be selected from the following lists, with consideration
             given to specific microclimatic conditions, including sun, shade, solar aspect, the
             size and growth habit of selected species at maturity and the overall landscape
             design concept.:

                                    Trees:
                                      Acer platanoides “crimson sentry”              Crimson sentry maple
                                      Acer tuncatum x A platanoides                  Norwegian sunset
                                             “keithsform”                                   maple
                                      Populus tremula “erecta”                       Swedish columnar
                                                                                            aspen
                                       Pyrus calleryana “capitol”                    Capitol pear
                                       Robinia pseudoacacia “purple                  Purple robe locust
                                               robe”
                                       Tilia cordata “Chancellor”                    Chancellor linden
                                       Zelkova serrata “Mushashino”                  Mushashino columnar
                                                                                           Zelkova
                                    Shrubs:
                                      Berberis thunbergii atro. “Ruby                Ruby carousel red leaf
                                             carousel”                                       barberry
                                      Cornus alba “cream cracker”                    Cream cracker
                                                                                             dogwood
                                       Juniperus horizontalis “icee blue”            Icee blue horizontal
                                                                                             juniper
                                       Prunus besseyi “Pawnee Buttes”                Pawnee Buttes sand
                                                                                             cherry
                                      Rhus aromatic “grow-low”                       Grow-low sumac
                                      Rosa meidiland sp.                             Meidiland rose
                                      Symphoricarpos x chenualtii                    Hancock coralberry
                                             “Hancock”
                                    Ornamental grasses:
                                      Calamagrostis acutifolia “Karl                 Karl Foerster feather
                                             Foerster”                                      reed grass
                                      Helictrotrichon sempervirens                   Blue oat grass
                                      Miscanthus sinensis sp.                        Maidenhair grass
                                      Pennisetum alopecuroides                       Fountain grass

         7.          New Phases: Each new LPCSD phase shall meet a minimum tenthirteen percent
                     (1013%) overall landscape percentage exclusive of the previously constructed
                     Lone Peak Business Park Phases 1 and 2 and the previously constructed two
                     hundred eighty five thousand (285,000) square foot manufacturing building and

Ordinance No. 1426                                   6                       Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                        Zoning Text Amendment
                the adjacent one hundred thousand (100,000) square foot warehouse building.
                This tenthirteen percent (1013%) overall minimum landscape percentage is
                calculated as total landscaped area over developed site area. To mitigate the
                reduced overall landscaping, more intensive plantings in certain areas shall be
                required., with particular emphasis on the highly visible ingress/egress corridors
                directly adjacent to 12300 South and Lone Peak Parkway.
         11.    Buffer Requirements: In the specific instance that a proposed development
                request within the LPCSD abuts another property outside the LPCSD that is not
                zoned commercial, the landscape buffering requirements for the development
                request within the LPCSD shall be limited to a forty foot (40') setback from the
                property line, three (3) shade trees, eight (8) evergreen trees and twenty two (22)
                shrubs for every one hundred (100) linear feet of the buffer.
         12.11. Lone Peak Parkway:
         13.12. Interior Streets: Interior streets shall include a five foot (5') minimum landscape
                buffer on both sides of the street measured from curb back to curb back or
                building, between street and parking or buildings. All outside areas shall be
                landscaped with a combination of lawn or artificial turf, columnar trees, shrubs,
                decorative grasses and rock ground cover incorporated in this LPCSD text.
         14.13. Buildings: Buildings shall include a five foot (5') minimum landscape strip
                located between building front and adjacent sidewalk or parking area and a ten
                foot (10') minimum landscape area located between parking areas where two (2)
                buildings with lot lines and adjacent parking occur. All outside areas shall be
                landscaped with a combination of lawn or artificial turf, columnar trees, shrubs,
                decorative grasses and rock ground cover incorporated in this LPCSD text.
         14.    Outdoor Art: Landscaping may include outdoor art or sculptures that are
                culturally enriching and socially acceptable. It is the intent that the artwork add to
                the theme and esthetic experience of the Lone Peak Business Park and not as
                propaganda or for marketing. All outdoor art shall be of a type and in a location
                that will not be a distraction or impede the view of those accessing the rights-of
                way.

9-18G-060: PARKING:
         A.          Parking For Retail Buildings: For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of retail space,
                     there shall be fivefour (45) parking spaces. ADA accessible stalls will be provided in
                     accordance with established standards.
         C.          Parking For Industrial Buildings: For every one thousand (1,000) square feet of
                     industrial space, there shall be a minimum of one and one-half (1½) parking spaces.
                     ADA accessible stalls will be provided in accordance with established standards.

9-18G-070: LIGHTING DESIGN:
         D.          Design: Both pole mounted and building mounted light fixtures shall be of a design to
                     not allow direct light to escape above the ninety degree (90°) plane of the fixture lens.
                     The approval of light pole colors shall be at the discretion of the planning review staff in
                     accordance with the site plan review process. Preferred parking lot light pole colors shall
                     be stainless steel and/or silver, grey or white as approved by the planning review staff.
                     Light poles adjacent to 12300 South or Lone Peak Parkway shall be black.



Ordinance No. 1426                                        7                          Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                                Zoning Text Amendment
9-18G-075: TRUCK CIRCULATION
Truck circulation is an important aspect due to the turning radius of trucks pulling fifty three foot
(53’) trailers and double trailers. With the turning radius being so wide and as not to block
traffic or cross medians in order to navigate into and out of truck courts from the access roads,
the following will be allowed:

         A.          The maximum width of an approach from any street will be fifty feet (50’)
                     measured from curb face to curb face where the approach enters a truck court.
                     The minimum curb radius at the approaches will be fifteen feet (15’) measured
                     from the curb back with a maximum curb radius of twenty four feet (24’)
                     measured from curb back. Two (2) truck approaches shall not be placed adjacent
                     to each other regardless of lot boundaries and shall be have a maximum truck
                     approach of one and one-half (1.5) per lot. Where possible two (2) separate lots
                     will share a single truck approach.

         B.          The maximum width of an approach from any street will be thirty-six feet (36’) at
                     any approach entering an automobile only parking lot with a minimum approach
                     width of twenty-six feet (26’). The minimum curb radius at the approaches will
                     be a minimum of twenty-four feet (24’) measured at curb back.

9-18G-080: SIGNAGE:
         B.          Pylon Signs: A maximum of sevenfive (75) pylon signs may be erected. One pylon sign
                     will be located at the intersection of 12300 South 265 West, one at the future intersection
                     of 12200 South Lone Peak Parkway, and one at the intersection of approximately 12000
                     South Lone Peak Parkway as conceptually outlined in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D of
                     this article. The remaining two (2) pylon signs shall also adhere to the master signage
                     guidelines of the LPCSD and must be approved by the zoning administrator for all
                     appropriate safety issues. These pylon signs shall be a maximum of thirty feet (30') tall
                     (in addition to the three feet (3’) base) and no wider than ten feet (10') and shall identify
                     the business park as well as up to tenfour (104) major tenants located within the park.
                     Each pylon sign may be multi-tenant signs designed to be architecturally compatible with
                     the LPCSD design themes as depicted in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D1 of this article.

         C.          Multi-TenantMonument Signs: Single or Multi-tenant monument signage shall be
                     allowed in the following locations:
                     2.      Lone Peak Business Park phase 1 at approximately 12250 South Lone
                             Peak Parkway; and
                     3.      Lone Peak Business Park east at approximately 12217 South Lone Peak
                             Parkway.;
                     4.      Lone Peak Biotech Business Park at approximately 12200 South Lone
                             Peak Parkway;
                     5.      Approximately 11950 South Lone Peak Parkway;
                     D.      Single Use Tenant Monument Signs: Single use tenant monument signage shall
                             be allowed as follows:
                     1.6.    Each subdivided lot Properties along Lone Peak Parkway and within the
                             LPCSD with fifteen (15) or more acres and eight hundred feet (800') or
                             more of direct street frontage shall be allowed a up to three (3) monument
                             sign on each street frontages. The height of each monument sign shall not

Ordinance No. 1426                                        8                          Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                                Zoning Text Amendment
                             exceed twelve feet (12') and the overall sign area shall not exceed sixty
                             four (64) square feet, as described in section 9-18G-090, exhibit E of this
                             article.

         E.D.        Previously Constructed Or Existing Signage: All previously constructed or existing
                     multi-tenant monument signage within these three (3) distinct areas of the LPCSD shall
                     be allowed a maximum of thirty (30) square feet of tenant advertising area and excludes
                     the sign's architectural supports and design elements as described in section 9-18G-090,
                     exhibit D1 of this article.

         F.E.        Additional Monument Signs: Pad sites along 12300 South may install additional
                     monument signs along 12300 South, designed to be architecturally compatible
                     with the LPCSD's design theme as outlined in section 9-18G-090, exhibit D1 of
                     this article and be no larger than thirty-twotwenty four (3224) square feet of
                     tenant advertising area. This maximum square footage allocation excludes the
                     sign's architectural supports and areas not designed for tenant's advertising area.
         G.F.        Additional Directional/Informational Signage:
                     1.      Additional tenant directional signage may be installed to direct traffic, customers
                             and truck drivers to individual tenant locations within the LPCSD. The
                             maximum area of business name or logo on directional signage shall be one
                             square foot. The maximum area of the directional signs shall be teneight (108)
                             square feet. Cabinet signs shall be permitted.
         H.G.        Wall Mounted Sign Design Guidelines For Multi-Tenant, Single Owner Or Single
                     Occupant Buildings: Wall mounted signage shall be allowed usually above the
                     main entry of each tenant space and shall incorporate the following design
                     criteria:
         I.H.        Undeveloped Lot Signage: Future development lots shall also be allowed one lot
                     identification sign. The lot identification sign shall be no taller than three feet (3')
                     and no wider than two feet (2'). The lot identification sign shall include the Lone
                     Peak business park logo and the individual lot number as portrayed in section 9-
                     18G-090, Exhibit D1 of this article.
         J.I.        Temporary Signage: Draper City's normal temporary signage ordinances and
                     procedures outlined in section 9-26-080 of this title shall also apply to this district.
         K.J.        Pole Signage: One pole sign will be located in the vicinity of 12300 South and
                     222 West, as conceptually outlined in Exhibit D2 of this article. This pole sign
                     will be a maximum of forty feet (40’) tall and no wider than ten feet (10’) and
                     shall identify up to two tenants located within the park.
         L.K.        Menu Boards: Menu boards, including digital menu boards, shall be allowed for
                     drive-thru restaurants and fast food facilities.
         M.L.        Clearance Signs: Drive-through facilities shall be allowed one clearance sign per
                     drive through lane which will not exceed four (4) square feet.
         M.          Archway Sign: Archway signs not to exceed twenty-four feet (24’) clearance will
                     be allowed at 265 West 12300 South provided it is not installed in a public right
                     of way.




Ordinance No. 1426                                       9                          Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                                               Zoning Text Amendment
9-18G-085: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Approval of this Commercial Special District text and accompanying exhibits constitutes
conceptual site plan approval of the office, industrial, commercial and retail components in
accordance with City ordinances. Site plans for development in the LPCSD may be approved by
the Draper City zoning administrator. Except as otherwise provided herein, permits shall be
processed in accordance with the Draper City requirements, ordinances and procedures.




Ordinance No. 1426                           10                     Lone Peak Business Park CSD TA #2
                                                                               Zoning Text Amendment
