NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL RETREAT AGENDA 1020 East Pioneer Road, Draper, Utah 84020 in the Council Chambers Notice is hereby given that Draper City Council will hold a Planning Retreat on Tuesday, September 22, 2020, at 6:30 PM. The Agenda will be as follows: Electronic Meeting Notice • This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
Determination 2020-08, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
COVID-19 cases continue to fluctuate at significant levels and hospitalizations in Salt Lake County and Draper continue at rates that, if left unchecked, pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with State Phased Guidelines and Salt Lake County Health Department Public Health Orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
The original of this written determination is on file in the City Recorder's office.
To listen remotely, go to the Draper City website- https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes Priorities Discussion • Items to be discussed may include, but are not limited to: capital projects, parks, trails, roads, Draper City Municipal Code, communications plan, long range planning, boards and commission roles, community events and local control of land use.  SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH Date Posted: 9.17.2020   Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draper.ut.us , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.