Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Travis VanEkelenburg
CC:  Date: October 8, 2020
Re: University Federal Credit Union Site Plan Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for approximately 0.89 acres located on the north side of 12300 South, at approximately 811 East. The property is currently zoned CN (Neighborhood Commercial) . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan Amendment be approved to allow for an exterior remodel and a parking lot expansion. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1.    The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
2.    A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but notlimited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.    The proposed development plan meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.    The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.    The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
6.    The requested deviation complies with DCMC section 9-25-090(C)(4)
For Denial:
1.    The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.    The proposed development plan does not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.    The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
5.    The requested deviation does not comply with DCMC section 9-25-090(C)(4) ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 9/30/2020 Cover Memo