                                    Development Review Committee
                                        1020 East Pioneer Road
                                          Draper, UT 84020
                                            September 18, 2020


To:                  Draper City Planning Commission
                     Business Date: October 8, 2020

From:                Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       University Federal Credit Union - Site Plan Amendment Request
          Application No.:    SPR-1000-2020
          Applicant:          John Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects
          Project Location:   811 East 12300 South
          Current Zoning:     CN (Neighborhood Commercial) Zone
          Acreage:            0.89 Acres (Approximately 38,768 ft2)
          Request:            Request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for an exterior remodel and
                              parking lot expansion.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for approximately 0.89 acres located
on the north side of 12300 South, at approximately 811 East (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned
CN (Neighborhood Commercial). The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan Amendment be approved to
allow for an exterior remodel and a parking lot expansion.

The University Federal Credit Union has been in Draper since 1997 and is expanding their parking,
remodeling the interior and exterior of the building, and are widening the third drive up lane for improved
vehicle access.


ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property. This category is characterized as follows
(Exhibit C):




University Federal Credit Union                                                  App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                            1
The property has been assigned the CN zoning classification, supporting small retail, commercial and
office uses (Exhibit D). Per Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020: “The purpose of the
CN zone is to provide areas where convenience buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be
established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a
combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, meet day to day needs of nearby
residents.” The property is completely surrounded by the CN zone.

Site Plan Layout. The existing footprint for the property will remain the same with the exception of
additional parking and landscaping on the north end of the property. Exterior remodeling will include new
stucco and signs for the building. Signs are not approved with this application and will require a separate
sign permit application. The site will have revised ADA access for pedestrians, and a new trash enclosure
in the parking lot. The customer drive through will have new columns put in on the outside making the
third drive through lane more accessible and in similar size to the other two lanes. The canopy that is
above the drive through will remain the same (Exhibit E).

Landscaping. Per DCMC Section 9-23-100 requires at least 7% of the commercial parking lot area to be
landscaped. The new parking lot will have interior landscaping and a landscape buffer around the
perimeter of the lot. Landscaping will include various trees, shrubs, grass, crushed rock and mulch. Both
parking lots total 22,338 ft² of area, and of that 5,061 ft² is interior landscaping that equates to 23%
landscaping. This exceeds the 7% minimum required for parking lots. The entire site has 35% total
landscaped area exceeding the 20% minimum required for the site stated in the DCMC Section 9-22-
050(D)(1).

Parking. The applicant is requesting a deviation to increase the number of parking stalls allowed per


University Federal Credit Union                                                          App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                 2       2
DCMC Table 9-25-1 which allows banking and financial institutions 2.5 spaces per 1,000 ft² gross
building floor area. This equates to a maximum of 9 parking stalls since the building is 3,302 ft². The site
currently has 20 parking stalls and is proposing an increase to 35 parking stalls. In the analysis the
applicant stated that in order to serve their largest employee shift they would need a minimum of 12
spaces. The study further states that during peak times for the bank that 70% of their transactions take
place within the building versus the drive through. The study calculated at those peak times they have an
average of 31 patrons entering the building, assuming an average 15 minute time wait and transaction
time. The conclusion of the report states that based on the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip
generation model , a bank this size generates 44 transactions at peak times (lunch hours and 5:00 to 6:00
p.m.), but that this particular branch does 67 transactions processed at peak times and 46 of those are
inside the bank. It further states that a total of 28 spaces are required for this banks activity to operate
without utilizing off-site parking. The study states that the 35 parking stalls will meet this need and will
allow for future growth. A parking study is required to deviate from strict compliance per DCMC Section
9-25-090.

 DCMC Section 9-25-090(C) states:
2. Review and Recommendation: City staff shall review the study and make a recommendation to the
planning commission concerning the validity of the parking study, the appropriateness of the conclusions
reached, and the appropriate number of parking spaces that should be required.

Findings for approval of the requested deviation are as follows:

DCMC Section 9-25-090(C)
 4. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve a deviation from strict compliance for
the number of parking spaces required or the calculation used only after making the findings of this
subsection:
          a. For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the planning commission must
    find that:
            (1) Adequate parking will be provided;
            (2) The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each individual
    establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site specific factors of the application;
            (3) Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others are closed will not
    overburden the parking provided;
            (4) There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking for all
    associated uses;
            (5) Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance with the parking
    calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter;
            (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations, provide adequate
    transportation to offset any reduction in parking; and
            (7) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will have or will
    provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;
            (8) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment;

Lighting. Additional lighting will be provided in the new parking lot. The applicant submitted a
photometric light analysis and the lighting from the parking lot will have very minimal impact on the
surrounding businesses and school. Lighting for the entire site will comply with DCMC requirements.
Architecture. The existing building was built in 1997 and was developed under the 1990 DCMC. The
building is considered legal nonconforming and does not comply with current architectural standards.
Current DCMC Section 9-22-040(F) states that each building façade shall have two primary materials that
cover at least 75% of each façade. The façade modifications will bring the building into conformance
with current standards. The proposed material percentages are:


University Federal Credit Union                                                           App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                  3       3
North: Primary:   100% brick and tile.
       Secondary:   0%
South: Primary:    76% brick and tile.
       Secondary:  24% EIFS.
East: Primary:    100% brick and tile.
       Secondary:    0%
West Primary:     100% brick and tile.
       Secondary:   0%

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan Amendment request is
found in Section 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such requests
as:

          E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
             1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                approved.
             2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                materials.
             3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan
                and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
             4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
             5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7,
                8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                concerns.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan Amendment submission. Comments from these
divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment, and make a
decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the


University Federal Credit Union                                                             App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                   4        4
staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.         That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                     and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the
                     construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.         Per DCMC Section 9-5-090(J) failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year
                     of approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the expiration
                     of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request with the community
                     development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6) months. Approval of
                     this extension may only be granted by the Zoning Administrator or Planning
                     Commission, whichever is the approval authority outlined in this section, provided the
                     applicant can meet the requirements for extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate
                     substantial action toward obtaining a land disturbance permit.
          3.         Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
                     construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
                     required prior to Building Permit issuance.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.          The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
                      approved.
          2.          A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
                      limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
                      materials.
          3.          The proposed development plan meets the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
                      plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
          4.          The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
                      development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
          5.          The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles
                      7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities
                      concerns.
          6.          The requested deviation complies with DCMC section 9-25-090(C)(4)


The findings for denial as are follows:

          1. The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not
             limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building
             materials.
          2. The proposed development plan does not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general
             plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
          3. The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject
             development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
          4. The proposed development plans do not comply with the engineering standards found in
             Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and
             utilities concerns.
          5. The requested deviation does not comply with DCMC section 9-25-090(C)(4)



University Federal Credit Union                                                                  App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                       5        5
MODEL MOTIONS

Parking Deviation
DCMC Section 9-25-090
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation to parking, as requested by John
Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-1000-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18,
2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation to parking, as requested by
John Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-
1000-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
18, 2020, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation to parking, as requested by John
Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-1000-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18,
2020.


Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by John
Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-1000-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18,
2020.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan Amendment, as requested
by John Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-
1000-2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September
18, 2020, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan Amendment, as requested by John
Wetendorf, representing BGW Architects for University Federal Credit Union, application SPR-1000-
2020, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 18,
2020.




University Federal Credit Union                                                          App. # SPR-1000-2020
Site Plan Amendment Request                  6       6
                                         EXHIBIT A
                                    DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

    1. That all requirements of Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning, and Fire
       Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site construction.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. Stormwater Maintenance Plan has been approved. Signed and notarized Agreement is a condition
       of approval; it is required to be recorded and returned to the city prior to issuance of the Land
       Disturbance Permit for construction of the site.

    2. Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to construction
       activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is required prior to
       Building Permit issuance.

    3. Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through the
       Engineering Division.

Fire Division Review.

    1. Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-four (24)
       feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be
       required. The road must be, designed and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency
       apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
       have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of
       10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits being issued.

    2. Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire Department
       Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department prior to the
       issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any of the hydrants or
       temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

    3. Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers
       plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
       their background.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                2'-2"                                            STRUCTURAL CANOPY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COLUMN. SEE STRUCTURAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     800 EAST STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SITE PLAN REFERENCE NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1          PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2x4" wood FRAMING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4" WIDE PAINTED PARKING STALL WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2          STRIPING TO BE RE-PAINTED ON ASPHALT
                                                                                                   PROVIDE 1/2" RAISE AT CENTER OF
                                                                                                   ISLAND TO PROVIDE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   new ada ramp to be installed within
                                                        3'-6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sidewalk. see civil.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5                                                                                                                                                       5                                18                                                    5
                                                                                                   3/4" RADIUS EDGES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4          accessible route
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7/16" EXTERIOR SHEATHING




                                                                                                                                                   2'-2"
                                                                                                   CONTINUOUS SEALANT & BACKER                                                                                                   & VAPOR BARRIER                                                                                                                                     5' SIDEWALK       10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10 5' SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                 5          LANDSCAPE AREA. see landscape plans.
                      1'-0"




                                                                                                   ROD ON BOTH SIDES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING MONUMENT SIGN LOCATION to be
                                                                                                   6" CONCRETE SLAB. SEE CIVIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1                                                      13                                                                 22                                                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                          6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     replaced w/ new sign. by owner.
                                                                                                                                         A201
                                                                                                   COMPACTED GRAVEL FILL. SEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING LOCATION OF BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
                                                                                                   CIVIL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TRANSFORMER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRICK VENEER 0/ 1"                                                                                                                                   5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18'-4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8          new 3'-6"x 6'-2" x 6" slab for future atm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AIR GAP. MATCH BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12300 SOUTH STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TO BUILDING.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING LOCATION OF CONCRETE CURB.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9          DEMO & INSTALL NEW LANDSCAPE CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AS SHOWN ON CIVIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10         EXISTING CONCRETE SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3'-6"            3'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                   9'-6"                      9'-6"           9'-6"              3'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11         NEW AREA OF ASPHALT PAVING. SEE CIVIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR BY ANY MEANS WITHOUT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PERMISSION OF THE ARCHITECT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOR THIS PROJECT ON THIS SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THIS DRAWING IS CLASSIFIED AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OR TRANSMITTED IN ANY FORM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THIS PLAN IS PRODUCED ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET MAY BE REPRODUCED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWINGS DEPICTED ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNDER THE 1978 COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COLLECTION OF VISUAL ART.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND MAY NOT BE USED AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUTHORSHIP. NONE OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PART OF AN UNPUBLISHED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXPRESS PRIOR WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PICTORIAL, GRAPHIC OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACT, IT IS AN EXCLUSIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TECHNICAL CHARTS OR
                 ISLAND SECTION                                                                                                                     COLUMN DETAIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEMO EXISTING SIDEWALK & INSTALL NEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ORIGINAL WORK OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OTHER LOCATIONS.
            3    SCALE: 3/4"                      =     1'-0"                                                                             2         SCALE: 1 1/2"=          1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          18"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                landscaping. SEE CIVIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                                                                                                                                                3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13         existing site directional sign.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14         new location of parking lot pole light




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         36'-0"
                                                                                                                                       NO
                                                                                                                                                                                           STRIPE CONCRETE SLAB DIRECTLY IN FRONT OF                                                                                                                                 EXISTING SINGLE STORY                                                      18                          18              18                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                           ENCLOSURE AS INDICATED FOR A NO PARKING                                                                                                                              UNIVERSITY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW CONCRETE DRIVE THRU ISLAND. SEE DTLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11                                                                                        15
                                                                                                                                                                                           ZONE. THIS AREA TO BE REINFORCED 6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  & STRUCTURAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21                      21                 21
                                                                                                                                                                                           CONCRETE SLAB 13' W x 10' L in size.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 location of NEW accessible parking

                                                                                                                                     PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       stall. see civil.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5                                                                                                                                                                                   G003
                                                                                                                                                                                            PAINTED CORREGATED METAL GATE. COLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                            "DARK BRONZE" VFY W/ ARCHITECT. HINGE TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17         location of NEW LANDSCAPING. SEE CIVIL.
                                                                                  10'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20
                                                                                                                                                                                            6X6 TUBE STEEL COLUMNS. PAINT TUBE STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18         NEW 6" CONCRETE PAVING AREA. SEE CIVIL.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                            TO MATCH GATE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                response; OWNER CHANGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15               15                  15                                                                                                                                                         17                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14                                                                                                                                                                     19         NEW ada parking sign & post. see dtls.
                                                                                                                                                                              6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4/29/2020 ORIGINAL PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                             G003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           comments

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PLANNING comments

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PLANNING comments
                                                                            CONCRETE CURB &                                                                                                                       6" PAINTED BOLLARD                                                                                                      12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20         NEW CANOPY COLUMN. SEE STRUCTURAL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        17                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18'-0"
                                                                            GUTTER. SEE CIVIL.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19            5            19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21         location of DRIVE THRU BANK EQUIPMENT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COORDINATE PLACEMENT, POWER & DATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9'-0"                                                                                                                          NEEDS W/ OWNER & DIEBOLD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      accessible                                                   4                                                  SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   comments


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  response




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10                                              3                                              3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        route                                                                                                      PROPOSED SITE PLAN DESIGN                                                                          22                                                                                                                                                                                             22         new lighted site directional sign.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           & DETAILS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ####
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16                        16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GENERAL NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5                                                                                     5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6/10/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6/24/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8/21/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9/21/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1.        CONTRACTOR TO CONTACT NEIGHBORING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11                                                                                             PROPERTY OWNERS IN ADVANCE OF ANY WORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ####
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26'-0"
                                                                                                    8                                                                                    9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WHICH MAY EFFECT NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
                                                                                                   G003                                                                                 G003                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               117A                                                                                                            9                 9'-0"       9'-0"         9'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2.         COORDINATE any WORK AT CITY AND STATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14                                                                                                                                                            7'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROADS WITH COUNTY AND STATE DEPARTMENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TRANSPORTATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18                                                               9'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAINTED HOLLOW METAL                                                    1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3.         ALL LANDSCAPE WORK - SHALL BE PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOOR & FRAME. SEE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AND INSTALLED BY CONTRACTOR. REF LANDSCAPE.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BGW ARCHITECTS II PC│2909 WASHINGTON BLVD - OGDEN, UT 84401│PH: 801-618-3463│www.BGWSERVICES.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOOR SCHEDULE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.         CONTRACTOR TO READ AND FOLLOW THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SOILS REPORT AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNIVERSITY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROVIDED IN THE SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    17                                             14
                              1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5.         SEE CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR DIMENSIONS, CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            17                                                            AND ASPHALT LOCATIONS AND DETAILS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10'-0"
                                                                BRICK VENEER
                                                                    TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10                13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6.          REMOVE MUD/DEBRIS FROM VEHICLES EXITING
                                                                     BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBLE TO CONTROL DUST
                                          1'-6"




        SIGNAGE PER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND DIRT FROM NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES.
         ADAAG 4.30                                                                                                                TRASH CONTAINER LOCATION
                              PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.          SEE CIVIL SITE PLAN FOR ALL ADDITIONAL
                               ONLY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INFORMATION RELATING TO SITE PLAN.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8.        NONE OF THE BOLLARDS ARE TO BE PAINTED. THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER BRANCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5                                                                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OWNER WILL FURNISH CAPS FOR EACH OF THESE.
                                                                                                                                      6" CONCRETE SLAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                  12'-0"
                                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12'-8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED SITE PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW ELEMENTS LEGEND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                811 EAST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                G003                                                                                                                                                           117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING ELEMENTS TO REMAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SCALE: 1"           = 20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MOUNDED CONC. TOP FINISH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN PLACE
                                                                  8" CMU WALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEW ELEMENTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6" DIA. STANDARD STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIPE GROUTED. SOLID & PAINTED WHITE.
                                          7'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             36" MIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   building facade materials




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4" 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             backfill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        primary: 100% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          north
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NEW ASPHALT & ROAD BASE                                                                                           secondary: 0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sand                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEE CIVIL.
                                                                                                                     6" PAINTED
                                                                                                                     BOLLARDs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                primary: 76% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        electrical conduits.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 south
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             vfy number of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   secondary: 24% eifs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           req'd conduits w/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEALANT & BASE-CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4'-0"                                                Diebold                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  primary: 100% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             east




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             secondary: 0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36" MIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 note: hose down
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sand prior to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             primary: 100% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   backfilling to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE FOOTING                                                                                  west




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             secondary: 0%
                                                                BRICK VENEER                                                                   12'-0"                                                                                                                             ensure proper
                                                                    TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                     sand coverage
                                                                     BUILDING


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6"
                                                                                                                                                                   18'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2'-0" DIA.


                 ada PARKING SIGN                                                             Trash Enclosure Enlarged Plan                                                                                                                                                         ATM ISLAND TRENCH SECTION
            5                                                                        4                                                                                                                                                                               7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BOLLARD SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT:
                 SCALE: N.T.S.                                                                SCALE: 1/2"        =      1'-0"                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: 3/4"                         =         1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10                   SCALE: 1/2"                          =   1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5/8" SHEATHING                                 stiffclip 'pl' w/ #10 sts
                                                                                           STANDING SEAM MTL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VAPOR BARRIER O/                                                                                              STANDING SEAM MTL
                                                                                           ROOFING TO MATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5/8" EXT. SHEATHING                                                                                           ROOFING TO MATCH
                                                                                           BUILDING ROOF W/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING ROOF W/
                                                                                           METAL FASCIA.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #10 sts screws at 6" o.c.                                                                                                                    METAL FASCIA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                note: where wall length is                                                                                                                along edges & 12" o.c. elsewhere
2'-1 5/8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12' or less reduce horz & vert
                                                                                                                                                           NOTE: A 13' x 10' AREA OF CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                            IN FRONT OF DUMPSTER LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              rebar spacing to l/3, round
                                                                                                                                                             SHALL BE 6" THICK TO PREVENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 down to the nearest 8"                                                                                                tsn stiffclip lb w/ (4) #10 sts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        screws to stud & (2) paf to                                                                                                                                              pre-finished metal fascia.
                                                                                                                                                              DAMAGE FROM TRUCK WEIGHT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G003                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          embed pl at each stud                                                                             3 5/8" 20 ga. metal                                                match roof color.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PRE-CAST CONC. CAP W/ #4
                                                                                           STORAGE SHED HM                                                                                                 HARRISTONE PRECAST CONC. CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FRAMING @ 16" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BARS CAST INTO CAP SET INTO
                                                                                           'DOOR PAINTED                                                                                                   W/ #4 BARS CAST INTO CAP SET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W/R11 BATT INSUL                                            REINFORCED CMU - 6" NOM. #5'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GROUT FILLED CELLS.
                                                                                           TO MATCH GATE.                                                                                                  INTO GROUT FILLED CELLS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1'-0 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BARS @ 40" O.C. VERTICAL W/ (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              embed pl 1/4"x4"x cont. w/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. MASONRY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  #4'S @ 48" O.C. HORIZ. SOLID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3/4" dia x 6" hsa @24" o.c.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2" 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MTL FLASHING UNDER CAP                                                                                                                                                                                                               ELEV: 7'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GROUTED.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ABOVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PAVEMENT                                                                       1"                           BRICK VENEER                                                   #5x CONT. @ 48" o.c.                                                                                                                               BRICK VENEER OVER CMU.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CMU WALL W/ BRICK VENEER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O/ 1" AIR GAP                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOTTOM OF VENEER TO begin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              just below TOP OF TRASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            unREINFORCED CMU - 8" NOM.                                               BRICK VENEER                                                                                                                             ENCLOSURE GATE HEIGHT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           GATE HINGES WELDED TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w/ 1" AIR GAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       #5x CONT. @ 48" o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TUBE STEEL COLUMN.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ORIGINAL ISSUE: 04/29/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              solid grout reinforced
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COOR. W/ ARCHITECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CMU - 8" NOM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6X6X1/4" TUBE STEEL GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COLUMNS W/ PAINTED                                                                                                                    #5 vert




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROPOSED SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                            5/8" DIA. PAINTED STEEL TIE ROD.                                                                                                                                                                             FINISH. VFY COLOR                                                                                                                  dowel at 24" o.c.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W/ OWNER
8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            solid grout reinforced                                                                                                                                                                                          note: where wall length is
                                                                                                                                                                                          7'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CMU - 8" NOM.                                                                                                                                                                                               12' or less reduce horz & vert
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PAINTED STEEL FRAME & PAINTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CORRG. MTL. GATE. FIELD VFY                                                                                                                                                                                     4" CONC. SLAB ON 4"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rebar spacing to l/3, round
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRAVEL BASE                                                                                                                3/4" CHAMFER                                                                #5 vert                                                                                                                              down to the nearest 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           GATE DIMS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dowel at 24" o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PL 3/4X10"X12"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         #4 CONC. vert dowel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       center on bolts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            @ 24" o.c. alternate
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PAINTED CORREGATED METAL                                                                                                                                                                                  W/ (4) 3/4" DIA X 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        w/ masonry vert
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (2) #4'S AT 12" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           GATE. COLOR TO BE DARK                                                                                                                                                                                         ANCHOR BOLTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dowels
                                                                                                                                                                                                           BRONZE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4" CONC. SLAB ON 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRAVEL BASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            #4 CONC. vert dowel                                                      3/4" CHAMFER                                                                                                                                     PL 3/4X10"X12"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            @ 24" o.c. alternate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      center on bolts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT#: UFCU
                                                                                                                                                                                                           LOCKABLE GATE HATCH. LATCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1'-0"                                          w/ masonry vert                                                                                                                                       4" CONC. SLAB ON 4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (2) #4'S AT 12" O.C.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TO BE SIM. TO DAC INDUSTRIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W/ (4) 3/4" DIA X 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dowels                                                                                                                                                GRAVEL BASE                                            1'-2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           "STRONG ARM" COMMERCIAL                                                                                                                                                                                    #3 ties &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANCHOR BOLTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           LATCH.                                                                                                                                                                                               crossties at                                                                                                                                #4 vert at 16" o.c.                                       #4 vert at 16" o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8" o.c. (3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ties in top 5"                                                                                                                                                                                CONT. 12" FOUNDATION WALL
                                          3'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30" MIN.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONT. 12" FOUNDATION WALL

                                        5'-6 5/8"                                                                      12'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          thickened footing/foundation                                                                                          1'-0"                                                                                                    #3 ties & crossties at




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30" MIN.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONT. 12" CONC. FNDTN. WALL W/ #4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           BARS @ 24" O.C. EACH WAY.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   wall only occurs at gate                                                                                                                                                                                                       8" o.c. (3) ties in top 5"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    #4 VERt                                                                                                                            column locations.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NUMBER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AT 6" O.C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              #4 VERT AT 6" O.C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Around pier                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Around pier




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONT. 42"X12" FOOTING W/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           cont. 36"x12" footing                      (4) #5x CONT. EACH WAY                                                                                                                                                              cont. 36"x12" footing
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CONT. 1'X2' CONC. FOOTING W/ (3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                w/ (3) #5x cont                                                                                                                                                                                                                w/ (3) #5x cont
                                                                                                                                                                                                           #4 CONT. BARS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #5 at 14" o.c.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           #5 at 14" o.c.                                                                                                    3'-6"                                                                                   3'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             #5 at 14" o.c.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3'-0"
                                                                                                                                  FRONT VIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIDE VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trash Enclosure Shed Section
                Trash Enclosure Elevations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Trash Enclosure Section                                                                                                                                                         9              SCALE: 1/2"                      =     1'-0"
       6        SCALE: 1/2"               =           1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8          SCALE: 3/4"                                       =        1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                 DO NOT SCALE DRAWING
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                     Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On




Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On
                                                                                                                                            Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On




                                                                     Reeve & Associates, Inc. - Solutions You Can Build On




                                                                                                                             Reeve
                                                        09/21/2020




                                                                                                                             & Associates, Inc.
 EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXTERIOR FINISH SCHEDULE
                                                     existing drive thru
                                                     canopy to remain.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        legend
                                                                                                     T.O. ROOF PEAK
                                                                                                     125'-1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1        - existing 3 COAT ACRYLIC STUCCO

                                                     blocking as needed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2        - existing brick VENEER
                                                     allowing new column
                                                     framing to tie into                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.O. ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                121'-1"                - existing epoxy adhered tile TO BE COVERED WITH NEW 3
                                                     existing canopy roof                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COAT 1" ACRYLIC EIFS SYSTEM. VFY COLOR W/ OWNER.
                                                     structure.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4        - existing metal standing seam roof & facia
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5        - existing storefront system

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6        - new storefront window system
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B.O. ROOF
                                                     backer rod & caulking                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     113'-6"
                                                                                                    B.O. ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4                                                              7        - EXISTING COLUMN TO BE REMOVED.
                                                                                                    111'-10 1/2"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B.O. SOFFIT
                                                                                                                                                                    4                                              9                                                                                                                                                           111'-0"                 - existing BANK EQUIPMENT to be removed. INFILL OPENING &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                    B.O. SOFFIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FINISH W/ STUCCO SYSTEM. OWNER TO VFY COLOR.
                                                                                                    109'-4 1/2"
                                                                                                                                    14                                                                        11       14                                                              14                                                                                                     9        - new sign location, provide power & coord w/ owner
                                                     existing canopy beam
                                                     to remain. see                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - existing BANK EQUIPMENT to be removed. INFILL OPENING &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                     structural                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FINISH W/ BRICK VENEER. OWNER TO VFY COLOR.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR BY ANY MEANS WITHOUT THE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERMISSION OF THE ARCHITECT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FOR THIS PROJECT ON THIS SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     THIS DRAWING IS CLASSIFIED AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OR TRANSMITTED IN ANY FORM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THIS PLAN IS PRODUCED ONLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET MAY BE REPRODUCED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWINGS DEPICTED ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNDER THE 1978 COPYRIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COLLECTION OF VISUAL ART.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AND MAY NOT BE USED AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUTHORSHIP. NONE OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PART OF AN UNPUBLISHED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EXPRESS PRIOR WRITTEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PICTORIAL, GRAPHIC OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ACT, IT IS AN EXCLUSIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TECHNICAL CHARTS OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              11       - new exterior egress light. see electrical.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ORIGINAL WORK OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER LOCATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12       - EMPTY
                                                                                                                                    2                      5                         5            2       5        5             5   2               6                 2                    2                                                       7   13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13       - NEW COLUMN LOCATION ON NEW DRIVE THRU ISLAND (SEE SITE,
                                                                                                    T.O. SLAB
                                                                                                    100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. PAVING                    CIVIL & STRUCTURAL PLANS). NEW BRICK TO CLAD NEW COLUMN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              99'-6"                   WALLS. VFY COLOR W/ OWNER.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14       - existing epoxy adhered tile TO remain

                                                     new structural canopy
                                                     column. see structural.
                                                                                                      EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                1     SCALE: 1/8"      =   1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           response; OWNER CHANGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     building facade materials

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        primary: 100% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             north




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4/29/2020 ORIGINAL PERMIT SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        secondary: 0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      comments

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANNING comments

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANNING comments
                                                                                                     T.O. ROOF PEAK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     primary: 76% brick& tile




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                     125'-1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 south
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        secondary: 24% eifs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               comments


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             response




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     response
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        primary: 100% brick& tile




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLANNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             east
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        secondary: 0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ####
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        primary: 100% brick& tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             west
                                                     7/16" exterior sheathing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           secondary: 0%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6/10/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6/24/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8/21/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9/21/2020
                                                     with air barrier o/ 2x4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ####

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ####
                                                     wood stud framing


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                    B.O. ROOF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                    111'-10 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B.O. SOFFIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     109'-4 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BGW ARCHITECTS II PC│2909 WASHINGTON BLVD - OGDEN, UT 84401│PH: 801-618-3463│www.BGWSERVICES.com
                                                     new brick veneer o/ 1"                                                                                    14                                                          14
                                                     air gap, to match                              T.O. BRICK
                                                     existing building brick.                       107'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UNIVERSITY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7'-4"
                                                     drip edge                                                                                                                                                                                       3                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                         5                     5                 5

                                                                                                                                         2                                                                             2                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10'-0 1/2"
                                                                                                    T.O. SLAB                                                                                                                                                                                        T.O. SLAB
                                                     new structural                                 100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                            100'-0"
                                                     concrete pier. see
                                                     structural


                                                     new concrete drive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAPER BRANCH
                          2'-0"
                                                     thru island. see detail
                                                                                                      SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                     5/a102.
                                                                                                2
                 6"




                                                        new 6" concrete slab.
                                                                                                      SCALE: 1/8"      =   1'-0"
                                                        see civil.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           811 EAST 12300 SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAPER, UT 84020
         1'-0"
    6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.O. ROOF PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       125'-1"



    column SECTION                                                                                   T.O. ROOF
6   SCALE: 3/4"       =       1'-0"
                                                                                                     121'-1"

                                                                                                                                                                                                      4

                                                                      EXTERIOR SHEATHING                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4



                                                                                                    B.O. ROOF
                                                                                                    113'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                      4                                                                                                                                                            B.O. ROOF
                                                                                                    B.O. SOFFIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     111'-10 1/2"
                                                                      EXISTING TILE                 111'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                            4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14                                                                              14                             14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T.O. BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       107'-4"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                          5       5       5

                                                                                                                      13   7                                                                                                             2                                         2                               2                   2       2

                                                                                                    T.O. PAVING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.O. SLAB
                                                                      EXPANDED METAL LATH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100'-0"
                                                                                                    99'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT:
                                                                      DOUBLE "V" EXPANSION            WEST ELEVATION
                                                                      JOINT                     3     SCALE: 1/8"      =   1'-0"


                                                                      SCRATCH COAT

                                                                                                     T.O. ROOF PEAK
                                                                                                     125'-1"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T.O. ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     121'-1"
                                                                      BROWN COAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEAL:
                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                         4


                                                                                                    B.O. SOFFIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ORIGINAL ISSUE: 04/29/2020
                                                                                                    113'-10"

                                                                                                                                                                                     1                                                                                                              B.O. SOFFIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          111'-0"
                                                                                                    B.O. SOFFIT
                                                                                                    109'-4 1/2"                              1                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                               14                                                            14                                                                   14
                                                                      TOTAL THICKNESS IS 7/8"                                                                                                                                                                                                       T.O. BRICK
                                                                      OF ALL (3)                                                                                                                                                                                                                         107'-4"

                                                                                                                                                                             5                            5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                 10

                                                                                                                                                                        10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXTERIOR
                                                                                                                               2                      13                                     2                                       13                           2

                                                                                                    T.O. SLAB                                                                                                                                                                                         T.O. SLAB
                                                                                                    100'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                             100'-0"
                                                                      ACRYLIC STUCCO COLOR
                                                                      COAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT#: UFCU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                      NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                4     SCALE: 1/8"      =   1'-0"
                      CONTROL JOINT GUIDELINES

                      1. PROVIDE JOINTS WHERE MOVEMENT OF EIFS IS
                         ANTICIPATED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHEET NUMBER:
                                A. AT FLOOR LINES
                                B. AT COLUMNS AND CANTILEVERS
                                C. AT WINDOW CORNERS

                      2. MAX AREA BETWEEN JOINTS IS 144 SF.

                      3. MAX DISTANCE BETWEEN JOINTS IS 18' IN ANY DIRECTION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A201
    STUCCO EXPANSION JOINT
5   SCALE: 3"             =       1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DO NOT SCALE DRAWING
