MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE
2, 2020, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:                 Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                         Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:                 Councilmember Fred Lowry

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                    Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; John Eining, Police
                    Chief; Russ Fox, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting was held as an electronic meeting pursuant to Draper City Resolution #14-54. As restrictions
take place across the State for limiting public gatherings, we want to make sure everyone interested in
participating in City Council meetings can do so in a manner that they feel most comfortable. Individuals
could participate by:

      1. Listening through the Draper City Website: https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas-Minutes
      2. Emailing comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us by 5 p.m. on the day of the meeting.
         These will become part of the public record.
      3. Requesting the Zoom Meeting ID from public.comment@draper.ut.us by noon, June 1, 2020, to
         be able to speak during the Public Hearing portions of the meeting.
Study Meeting

1.0      Council/Manager Reports

1.1      Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that she had a request from a resident about the
         pickleball courts. She asked if there was a way to schedule times for the pickleball courts
         or do something online through the Parks and Recreation Department. She said that the
         complaint was that some residents are blocking out lengthy times of use for multiple
         parties, causing other residents to have to wait for two- or three-hour periods.

         David Dobbins, City Manager, said that staff could follow up on the concern. That was
         not something that was done in the past.

         Mr. Ogden said that the Parks and Recreation Department was in the process of having a
         solution. They had an almost ready system that put people in the queue for a court which
         caused players to rotate through the courts a lot faster.
1.2   Councilmember Tasha Lowery said there were a couple of community members who had
      reached out and expressed a willingness to help with some of the projects the City thought
      might have to wait, such as the all-abilities park and the Jordan River launch.

      Mr. Dobbins clarified that the residents were interested in helping financially through
      donations. When Councilmember Lowery confirmed that was correct, Mr. Dobbins said
      the City had not done this in the past but were open to doing that through the foundation.

1.3   Councilmember Cal Roberts asked about the SunCrest parade and if the Council had a
      sense of what their or the City’s involvement would be. Mr. Dobbins said that he thought
      that SunCrest had just informed Draper that they were doing the parade, but had not asked
      for the City’s involvement. Councilmember Roberts asked about services such as police
      car or fire truck appearances. Mr. Dobbins said the City has done things like that for
      various things. However, SunCrest would need to look into getting permits if they were
      planning on shutting down roads. He also noted that depending on how many people they
      anticipated participating, they might also need to get a county mass gathering permit.
      Councilmember Roberts asked again about the police and fire vehicles.

      Mayor Walker said that even though it was not an event put on by the City it was a
      community event. The City has had a presence and provided vehicles like this before.

      John Eining, Police Chief, said that he had emailed the parade organizer who had reached
      out to the City and informed him that he needed to get the permits. According to Chief
      Eining, the organizer was already working on the permits. The Chief said that he told the
      organizer that once he had secured the permits the Police Department would be willing to
      assist with the event.

      Mr. Ogden added that he had the City’s special events coordinator touch base with the
      parade organizer. However, as far as Mr. Ogden was aware, the organizer had not yet
      submitted anything to the City. He said that because they were looking for road closures,
      they would need an event permit, and their desire to include food trucks required a county
      health permit.

1.4   Councilmember Cal Roberts asked about the medians over by Cranberry Hill. The resident
      said that they required some maintenance as there was some overhanging brush that limited
      visibility and made turning out dangerous.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he believed that Mr. Ogden had looked into the trees and they were
      the HOA’s responsibility.

      Mr. Ogden said that on the west side of the road, it was a back of the park strip which fell
      to the responsibility of the homeowner, and on the east side the lot was sold to the house
      on the north near the canal and was also owned by the homeowner. Regarding the trees,
      the staff had already trimmed and taken care of them.




                                         Page 2 of 15
1.5   Councilmember Cal Roberts asked if there had been any more investigation on tolling
      SunCrest Drive and Traverse Ridge. Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that Spencer
      DuShane, City Attorney, was looking into if it was legal. Mr. Barker had not yet concluded
      the issue as there were a few matters of statutory interpretation and some circumstances
      regarding the ownership of the roads.

1.6   Councilmember Cal Roberts also followed up on communication from residents about the
      Draper Elementary safe walking routes.

      Mr. Dobbins explained that those residents had requested a new trail. Based on the
      previous discussion by the Council the City would not be implementing the request. The
      second issue was the sidewalks and safe walking routes. He said that he knew that
      developments to Fort Street were planned over the next few years.

      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that the safe walking route was along Fort Street
      as the City installed sidewalks where they were currently missing. For homes south of the
      school, the safe walking route would go through the Ivory subdivision. These homes do
      have a safe walking route it was just a little bit longer (about the length of 12 homes).

1.7   Councilmember Mike Green said that he and Mr. Ogden had discussed the management of
      park strips. Some were managed by Parks and Recreation, some by Public Works, some
      by residents. Councilmember Green felt that the City needed a consolidated plan to figure
      out how they would be managed. He cited that after speaking with Mr. Ogden he learned
      that the City was spending something like $17,000 a month to mow the park strips. If this
      was the case, Councilmember Green suggested they switch them to xeriscape.

      Mr. Dobbins said that staff could report back to the Council and submit an inventory of
      which park strips they maintain and the cost of maintenance.

1.8   Councilmember Mike Green wanted to tell the Police Department that he was grateful to
      them. He felt that they responded well to the protests and that he appreciated that Draper
      City police helped Salt Lake City. He said that the police had his full support.

1.9   Mayor Walker said that crossing at the intersection at 1300 East and 13800 South on the
      Porter Rockwell trail needed to better accommodate pedestrian crossing. He said people
      get stuck in the middle of the median because there is a stop sign halting traffic coming
      from the north, but on the south traffic is not stopped.

      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that intersection was part of a project that would
      either occur next year or the following year. He explained it was a federally funded project
      to finish 1300 East up to the bridge from 13200. He said there would be a signal at 13800
      South and 1300 East.

      Mayor Walker asked if the City could put up a pedestrian crossing flashing sign to better
      alert traffic to their crossing. Mr. Cooley said staff could look into it. He said that there



                                          Page 3 of 15
       were some safety concerns with younger kids and those signs, as kids push the button and
       feel as though they are safe to cross without actually looking.

1.10   Clint Smith, Fire Chief, provided an update on two apparatus projects the Fire Department
       had been working on over the last several months: the remount of the ambulance on a new
       chassis and the purchase of the reserve aerial. He said that both projects were coming along
       nicely. He showed a picture of a new ladder truck the department received today. He said
       that they would be able to use the vehicle in the next couple of weeks. Concerning the
       ambulance, because of travel restrictions, they would not be able to do an in-person final
       inspection but were scheduled to do a virtual inspection on Thursday, June 4th. If this went
       well, it would be shipped the following Friday or Monday, allowing the Fire Department
       to take possession of the vehicle for lettering and striping. He anticipated that by the end
       of June, both vehicles would be available for service.

1.11   Mr. Dobbins said that the City canceled the fireworks display last Saturday intending to
       move that into the fall. He said that in the middle of the summer with the high heat and
       dry conditions it was better to move. He also explained that in talking with the foundation
       about having a smaller concert with some food trucks and vendors in the fall instead of the
       full Draper Days event. He asked for verification of the Council’s direction.

       Mayor Walker said he thought the City could do one or two nights of a concert, as the talent
       was already lined up and they could do the fireworks in tandem with the concerts. Mr.
       Dobbins clarified that the Council did not want the event to be as big as Draper Days.

       Councilmember Mike Green said that he felt as though the City should just go back to
       normal.

       Councilmember Cal Roberts said that he wanted it to be more community-oriented and less
       commercial.

       Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that her goal would be for the event to be for residents,
       so to only advertise locally.

       Mr. Dobbins said that they had also completed the additional parking at Orson Smith. He
       said that as you would normally enter the parking lot, as you turn right to start up the road
       the area had been graded to accommodate 18 more parking stalls. He said that there would
       be an item on the Council’s next agenda to close the upper Corner Canyon Road for fire
       safety reasons. Residents would be able to go up to park their cars, but the road would be
       gated off after the parking area. He wanted to verify that the Council was still okay with
       that direction.

       Councilmember Tasha Lowery clarified that residents would still be able to hike and ride
       bikes up the road, they just would not be able to drive up to it.

       Mr. Dobbins said that he did not think the road closure would impact bikers. However, he
       predicted that the complaint the Council might receive was from hikers who liked to drive

                                           Page 4 of 15
       up the road towards the Ghost Falls parking area and hike from there. He said that people
       who parked up there would have to find other places to park. The City would advertise
       that they need to go to the equestrian center.

       Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked when Peak View would be open. Mr. Ogden said
       that the City advertises the end of summer, but that they were hoping to open it at the end
       of August. Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if there was any ability to accelerate the
       Peak View project so that it could open early. Mr. Ogden said the City could pay the
       contractor more money so that he could pay more staff to get more work done in a workday.

       Mayor Walker said it did not seem as though there was interest in paying more money to
       quicken the contract timeline.

1.12   Councilmember Tasha Lowery brought up that there had been a conversation about doing
       a winter fest. She asked if that was still being considered. Mr. Dobbins said that staff had
       not done much with that mostly because of cost. Given the uncertainty of budgets, the staff
       was hesitant to make financial commitments. He said that he was not comfortable to tell
       the Council that they had enough money to do it. However, it was important to the Council,
       staff could budget for it with the Council’s knowledge that their revenues might not match
       up to cover that cost.

       Mayor Walker asked when the City would have a feel for their revenues. He asked how
       much the sales tax lagged by. Mr. Dobbins said it was about a three-month lag. Mayor
       Walker said that it was probably better to do it next year.

       Councilmember Tasha Lowery requested that they look into a simple option for the ice-
       skating rink. Mr. Ogden said that he had sought a quote for the ice-skating rink. It would
       cost about $110,000 for two weeks. Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if the City would
       recoup any of the money for the rink through rentals and admission. Mr. Ogden said there
       would be a possibility for generating revenue and that the City would keep all of the
       revenue. He was just noting that the upfront cost was fairly high.

**     The City Council recessed at 6:30 p.m.

**     The City Council reconvened at 7:00 p.m.

Business Meeting

1.0    Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0    Consent Items
       a. Approval of May 5, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes

2.1    Councilmember Tasha Lowery moved to approve                        the   Consent     Items.
       Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey seconded the motion.



                                          Page 5 of 15
2.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

3.0   Action Item: Resolution #20-22, filling a mid-term vacancy and appointing a member
      to the Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control Board
      (Administrative), candidates will be given 5 minutes each to present their
      qualifications to the City.

3.1   Christine McClory, candidate, stated that this evening the Council would select a new board
      member for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSD). She said that she
      appreciated that the TRSSD chairman, Paul Tonks, and the Draper City Assistant Manager,
      Russ Fox, reached out to encourage that she might submit her name for consideration.

      Ms. McClory provided some background on herself. Originally from Maryland, she had
      lived in Draper City for 13 years. She worked as a professional public relations and media
      analyst for fortune 500 companies and then had her firm for 15 years before switching to
      professional photography. Also, she has served as a delegate on the Suncrest HOA, as well
      as a commissioner on the ten-year Parks and Trails Planning Commission. She said that
      both opportunities made her better acquainted with her neighbors and Draper City. She
      added that for the last two years she had worked with City staff, administrators, the TRSSD
      board, and contractors and suppliers to manage the district’s lights. In this role, she handled
      communication from residents, received and responded to orders through the Draper City
      website, and coordinated solutions with contractors. She said that her creative thinking and
      vigilant cost oversight had saved the district thousands of dollars as they embarked on
      upgrading all of their existing lights to LED and brought conformity to the lighting standard
      across the district. The transition to LED will reduce expenses for the City going forward.
      She continued that despite some delays beyond her control, the cost, quality, and speed of
      the operation had been considered outstanding by most municipal standards according to
      the project’s contractor and supplier who regularly work with cities on lighting projects.
      She said that what was important to note was that all of these efforts were undertaken as a
      volunteer and as someone who was genuinely committed to the Draper community.

      Ms. McClory said that she now hopes to provide that commitment to the TRSSD board.
      She described herself as a team player, an out-of-the-box thinker, and a problem solver.
      She stated that the district and City face challenges related to budget pressures that make it
      paramount for both sides to see that they were two sides to the same coin. “We are one
      Draper,” Ms. McClory said.

      She said that she felt that the TRSSD and Draper City would be best served in seeking
      common agreement where it could be found and supportably work to apply compelling
      data or precedent that may guide positions. If appointed, Ms. McClory said she would find
      it richly rewarding to work with the board, the Council, and the administration to overcome
      longstanding disputes and controversies and forage a working relationship that serves all
      stakeholders equitably. She stated that she believed that both listening and clear
      communication are of equal importance and essential in the effort to solve problems.



                                          Page 6 of 15
      Ms. McClory said that if the Council seeks someone who desires real solutions and a
      working partnership and someone who will work diligently to that end, she believed she
      was the most experienced and knowledgeable candidate for the position. She requested the
      Council's support and stated that if appointed she would give her full commitment to be an
      honest broker as the pressing issues ahead were addressed.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if Christine McClory could tell the Council a little
      bit about what she has learned about the light situation over the past two years.

      Christine McClory, a candidate, said that she became interested in the light situation after
      a personal observation of a light that was refracting a lot of light due to fog. At this point,
      she reached out to Amy Baird about how lights were going to change moving forward. Ms.
      McClory said that after getting that information she decided to do some homework and
      research, as she is someone who likes to look into things. Initially, Ms. McClory was
      interested in lightbulbs as opposed to fixtures. However, when put in contact with the
      supplier she learned that there was a specific design for SunCrest lighting. Thus, she
      learned that there were misunderstandings about what materials the lights were made out
      of, the cost of what the lights were sold for, and what the City was paying for them.
      Ultimately, Ms. McClory discovered the true cost of the lights for the district. Ms. McClory
      also learned from Amy Baird that she received more complaints about the new lights than
      she did about lights being out. Ms. McClory said that when you live in a community you
      get used to a particular ambiance both inside and out of your home, which explained the
      personal reaction to the change in lighting. Many people showed up for public comment
      on the issue.

      Ultimately, when two new communities were joining the district, Edge Homes Hidden
      Valley Estates, and Edelweiss, Ms. McClory proposed an LED solution and gained an
      incredible response across the board about the look of the lights and the safety they have
      provided the community.

      Councilmember Mike Green asked Christine McClory how she saw the roads getting fixed
      up in the TRSSD. He asked what her plan was.

      Ms. McClory, a candidate, said that a lot could happen if everyone realized that they were
      in things together. She said that she just believes there was a solution if all sides genuinely
      wanted it to be equitable for all parties.

3.2   Jeff Jones, a candidate, thanked the Mayor and Council for the opportunity to apply for the
      position and provide service to his community. He provided some background on himself.

      Mr. Jones said he was initially from Arizona but had lived in Utah for more than half his
      life. After he initially moved to Utah for college, he fell in love with the accessibility to
      nature and the Utah County girls making it difficult to leave. His father’s family were
      pioneers and farmers who brought irrigation capabilities to the valley and helped found
      Draper before moving to Payson and on to the Mexican colonies where they ultimately
      settled in Mesa, Arizona. Mr. Jones majored in political science while studying at Brigham

                                          Page 7 of 15
     Young University (BYU) and had the opportunity to focus on the local politics of Utah,
     which were unique at the time for him given the contrast between the Utah legislature and
     that of the paid legislature that Arizona employees use to run their state. Instead of pursuing
     politics, Mr. Jones focused on information technology but said that he had always been
     intrigued by the societal impacts of technology and had focused his efforts on places in
     technology like data privacy, security, and risk management. His interest in local politics
     was in understanding the sociological impacts of our communities and how people behave
     and interact to accomplish and get goals done.

     Mr. Jones, a candidate, stated that he works professionally in the data security space,
     specifically in software sales and engineering in a unique role that liaises between technical
     folks and executives asking him to communicate both internally and externally between
     parties with different interests and understandings. He said that role allows him to employ
     a wider vision, offer feedback loops, and get teams to work together.

     Mr. Jones said that he was a nine-year resident of the TRSSD and moved into SunCrest
     without awareness or disclosure of the sellers of the TRSSD. However, he felt that it was
     a unique aspect of the community and their greater relationship with Draper. He said that
     he had been active in efforts to finalize moving most of the purchase of the SunCrest open
     space to be officially preserved by urging the Council to grant its preservation status. He
     said that participating in the effort inspired him to be more active in local governance and
     politics.

     Mr. Jones said that he was not a black or white thinker, either all in or all out, but rather
     appreciated that some issues required more analysis and often required difficult solutions.
     He said that he had been a little disappointed in the TRSSD and Draper City’s mutual ability
     to resolve TRSSD disputes and believes that TRSSD residents deserve more transparency.
     Instead of complaining, he said that he decided to volunteer to help with community
     communication and assist the board with administrative tasks.

     He said that he believed that his skills could help the community heal and move forward
     under the City’s leadership. He said that his neighbor Christine, the candidate the Council
     just heard from, had also volunteered whole-heartedly to support the district and he would
     support her position on the board. He said that one reason why he volunteered was so that
     there were enough candidates to move forward with the selection process for a new board
     member.

     Mr. Jones also stated that he felt some concerns about the conflict of interest of some of
     the applicants. He specifically pointed to candidate Daryl Acumen, who also works
     professionally consulting for City Councilmembers. Because of this, he encouraged taking
     advantage of volunteer support. He thanked the Council for the opportunity to help better
     represent and improve the communication with taxpayers of the TRSSD while assisting
     with administrative tasks necessary to fulfill the district's obligations.

**   Mayor Walker left the meeting at 7:15 p.m.



                                         Page 8 of 15
**    Mayor Walker rejoined the meeting at 7:16 p.m.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery thanked Mr. Jones for his time this evening. She asked for
      clarification if he felt comfortable with Christine McClory, an alternative candidate, on the
      board and if he was endorsing her for the position. She also wanted clarification if Mr.
      Jones was removing himself as a candidate.

      Mr. Jones said that was correct. He wanted to express his endorsement of Ms. McClory,
      just as he had done publicly in the past. He said that she had put a lot of time and work
      into the community and that he felt he could do that as well, too. He was not removing
      himself as a candidate. He explained that in the past there had to be three applicants to
      move forward with appointing a new board member, so he volunteered because he felt this
      was a critical time for the TRSSD. He clarified that he recommended that the Council
      consider the two candidates who do not have a potential conflict of interest from
      professional paid consulting activities.

      Councilmember Mike Green asked for Mr. Jones to briefly describe his thought process for
      solving the road issue.

      Mr. Jones said that the road issue was one of the main reasons he was interested in
      participating. He said that as a district they have not been exposed to all of the details or
      information that would be necessary to make a fair statement about what that decision
      would be. He said that there had been a lack of transparency as a result of arbitration going
      on. However, he said it would be difficult for him to say what a solution might be before
      listening and receiving transparent information. He said that for him this process of
      transparency and collaboration feels more important to him than the outcome of the
      process.

3.3   Daryl Acumen, candidate, said that he was the Senior Solutions Consultant for Adobe. He
      said that he was a digital marketing and web analyst by trade. He said that he moved to
      Utah in 2002. He said he had a bachelor’s degree in economics from Utah Valley
      University (UVU), and a master’s in business administration from BYU. He said that his
      qualification was that he lived here. He said that over the last several years he had been
      politically involved. He ran for vice chairman of the republican party in 2013 to help them
      with their voter outreach efforts and get their data up to speed. He explained he left that
      position when he moved across the county line. Recently, Jason Chase asked him to run
      his digital strategy for the 2020 campaign. Mr. Acumen explained that when Mr. Chase
      dropped out of the campaign in 2017, he transferred his service to help other candidates
      such as Senator Hatch, Mitt Romney, Chris Stewart, and Jon Huntsman in their data
      management. He has also assisted in voter outreach and identification for the Utah
      Republican Party during 2014, 2016, 2018, and 2020. He said that this will be his last cycle
      in politics as his wife has told him that he needs to spend less time and energy in politics
      except for the TRSSD board or something to do with their City or community, he could
      serve.




                                          Page 9 of 15
Mr. Acumen said that yes, he had assisted City Councilmembers in Draper because he was
sick and tired of Traverse Mountain not having any representation on the City Council. He
said that he supported Councilmembers Tasha Lowery, Mike Green, and Cal Roberts
because they lived on Traverse. He said that he was interested in making sure that the
relationship between SunCrest and Draper stops being adversarial and starts being mutually
respectful where the two parties talk to each other like the neighbors they are.

Mr. Acumen said that he did not know that much about what was going on with the TRSSD
as his involvement with politics was at the state level. From his perspective, however, the
litigation, controversy, and contention that have been going on all these years were
completely counterproductive. As a business analyst, Mr. Acumen believed in key
performance indicators (KPIs). The KPI of the TRSSD board is to remove snow and fix
roads and until recently, from Mr. Acumen’s perspective, the TRSSD had failed. He said
that whatever strategy the TRSSD was using with their litigation was simply not working
in part because of the makeup of the City Council. To address this, he tried to help change
who got elected by supporting candidates who felt as though they had SunCrest interests at
heart. He said that he recognized some activists in SunCrest did not understand that effort,
but it is his opinion that positive results have occurred as there has finally been some
movement on roads. He said that he looks forward to working with the City Council and
the Mayor as he sees them at a turning point in the relationship between SunCrest and lower
Draper. He said that he is excited to add his voice to that process. He said that he is only
interested in the position because he lives here and loves the neighborhood.

Councilmember Cal Roberts asked for Mr. Acumen to speak to his ability to work with
people he disagrees with on principle.

Mr. Acumen said that he was a business analyst by trade so for him, everything comes
down to business. He said that he works with people that he disagrees with all the time.
He said that he was not a fan of Donald Trump but that he almost got a Donald Trump-
supporting candidate nominated for the fourth congressional district. He said that there are
lots of people that he works with that he does not agree with such as the chairman of the
Salt Lake Republican who he violently disagrees with about the caucus system. However,
they are partnering together to do voter outreach and voter registration of unaffiliated voters
in Salt Lake County. He said, “I’m black. My family is Democrat.” He said he is a
protestant leaning Catholic who is married to a Mormon. He said that difference of opinion
on principle does not scare or bother him. He said what does bother him is when
professionals are not looking at key objectives and treating issues like a business. That was
his issue with the TRSSD over the last few years; he felt they were not being business-
minded.

Councilmember Cal Roberts asked if Mr. Acumen could speak to the perceived conflict
given that he had previous relationships with members of the City Council, himself
included. Councilmember Roberts wanted to know how that might impact how Mr.
Acumen might view the TRSSD.




                                    Page 10 of 15
      Mr. Acumen, said that perceived conflicts were just a function of being involved. He said
      that someone could make the argument that he had conflicts in the State Governor’s race
      and Federal legislative races. This was because he ran the voter outreach, voter
      identification, and data infrastructure of most republicans in the state of Utah. He said there
      almost was not a Republican candidate in the state that he had not had some involvement
      with. He said that if someone wants a system related to voter registration they come to
      Daryl. If that were a conflict of interest, he would not be eligible to run for anything and
      might as well move to Texas. He disagreed that there was a conflict of interest.

      Councilmember Mike Green asked Mr. Acumen his perspective on how to fix the road
      problem.

      Mr. Acumen said that he did not know enough about it yet. He believed there had to be
      money there. He disclosed that he and Councilmember Green had already talked about
      some of Councilmember Green’s ideas about some of the uses for the undeveloped land by
      Deer Ridge to help fund road improvement. He said that he was confident there was a
      solution that was not all that far off. He said that he knew that the TRSSD board had been
      working hard and were close to a solution. He had a lot of faith in the TRSSD.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked Mr. Acumen if he had time to serve on the TRSSD
      as she felt this was a situation where a candidate would need to dig in and get their hands
      dirty for a while. She asked if given the effort he put into his career and his involvement
      with other candidates if he had time to dedicate to several meetings a month.

      Mr. Acumen said that was a fair question. He said that he was winding down his political
      career. He said that he had been doing his career, plus graduate school, plus political stuff
      for the last several years that had taken up a lot of time. He said that his wife had made
      him promise to wind things down, the TRSSD being the exception as it involved Draper
      and their community. Anything else she said he had to get out of by the end of 2020. So,
      he did think that he would have the bandwidth.

3.4   Councilmember Tasha Lowery noted that Councilmember Fred Lowry had contacted her
      earlier and expressed that he hoped to correspond via email or phone with some of the
      candidates.

3.5   Councilmember Mike Green moved to continue Resolution #20-22, appointing to fill
      a mid-term vacancy, and appointing a member to the Traverse Ridge Special Service
      District Administrative Control Board to City Council Meeting on June 16, 2020.
      Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

3.6   Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that he was unsure if Councilmember Fred Lowry could
      conduct his interviews outside of the public purview. He said that the statute was pretty
      clear that interviews have to take place in a public setting. Mr. Barker expressed concern
      for Councilmember Lowry conducting one-on-one research that was not in a public setting.




                                          Page 11 of 15
      Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if the candidates could send Councilmember Lowry
      a summary of what they said tonight.

      Mike Barker, City Attorney, said it would be better for him to just listen to the interaction
      that had occurred during the meeting. He wanted the opportunity to look into the
      parameters around public interviews to be able to clarify if Councilmember Lowry was
      able to send the candidates questions outside of the public meeting.

3.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1439 Stevens Lot Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
      Action), on the request of Bryan Flamm for approval of a zoning map amendment to
      change the zoning designation from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 sq. ft. Lot
      minimum) to RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 sq. ft. lot minimum). This
      property is approximately 1.0 acre in size. The address is approximately 13755
      Shadow Mountain Lane.

4.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg said that the applicant was seeking a change in zoning designation
      from RA1, residential agricultural zone, to RA2, residential agricultural zone at the
      property located at 13755 Shadow Mountain Lane, a private road. He said that the subject
      property was one acre in size with a 40,000 square foot minimum lot size. The proposed
      RA2 zone designation has a 20,000-foot minimum lot size. The land use map calls for
      residential low-medium density land use designation for the subject property. The RA2
      zoning is a compatible designation for this land use category.

      Mr. Van Ekelenburg said that if the proposed rezone is approved, it is the applicant’s
      intention in the future to purchase the north half of the property by submitting an amended
      subdivision plat amending the Kennington Estates subdivision which the property is
      currently in. Mr. Van Ekelenburg displayed images of the subject property to provide a
      better picture of how the lots would be divided and reincorporated.

      The Planning Commission voted in favor of the item 4-to-1 on the May 14th meeting.
      However, there was a public comment at the Planning Commission meeting that was fairly
      negative.

4.2   Bryan Flamm, the applicant, offered the clarification that if the lot were divided he did not
      intend for it to be a separate lot, but rather to change the boundary lines of his current half-
      acre lot to include the area and make his lot one acre and change the seller’s lot to a half-
      acre. He said that the intention with the lot was to add it to his backyard. He noted that
      Councilmember Lowery had noted the difficulty in getting pickleball courts and he was
      hoping to resolve that for his family.

      He said that there were three other residents on the lane. Since the Planning Commission
      meeting, they met at a distance on the patio and reached an understanding about his
      intentions for the lot. He said that he was willing to put into writing that he does not intend

                                          Page 12 of 15
      to turn the acquired property into a second lot which provided the residents with some
      additional comfort.

4.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward electronically, so
      Mayor K. Walker noted that the Council did receive emailed public comment before
      the meeting that was included in the councilmembers’ packets before he closed the
      public hearing.

4.5   Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that the comments they received in their packets were
      positive and communicated that the neighbors were in favor of this becoming a park and
      pickleball court. She asked what were the negative comments that were received at the
      Planning Commission.

      Mr. Van Ekelenburg said that residents were concerned about additional traffic through the
      private lane. The other concern was the possibility of subdividing the property resulting in
      another residence that would put an additional load on the private lane.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery said that it appeared the applicant had put that issue to rest
      in clarifying his intention to extend his backyard.

4.6   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1439, Stevens Lot
      Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

4.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Tentative Budget, this is an opportunity for
      the public to comment on the Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Tentative Budget prior to its
      adoption.

5.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, explained that the item was the public hearing for the
      proposed 2020-2021 tentative budget as was presented to the Council on May 19, 2020.
      He said the tentative budget was balanced. However, the City had not yet received a
      certified tax rate, so they have proposed to maintain the current rate. There were no rate
      increases in any of the utility funds. There were also no new additions to the budgets or
      capital projects. He explained the budget had been available to the public through the
      City’s website and at the City Recorder’s Office.

5.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward electronically, so
      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

5.3   Councilmember Mike Green moved to approve the FY20-21 Tentative Budget.
      Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey seconded the motion.

5.4   Mr. Dobbins said that the boat ramp project had been funded. In conjunction with this
      project, it was felt that they needed to expand the parking lot to accommodate additional

                                         Page 13 of 15
      traffic and boat trailers. However, because of the economic downturn, the County had
      withdrawn most of the money they had allocated towards the project. Mr. Dobbins
      explained that Mr. Ogden had been working on finalizing the budget given this change.
      Mr. Dobbins said that the City did have impact fee money that could be used to make up
      the difference if the Council wanted to use those funds to support the project with park
      impact fee money. If the Council wanted to take that action, staff could find the number
      and include that at the next City Council meeting so that it was reflected in the approved
      budget.

      Councilmember Mike Green said that he was good at looking at the numbers and at least
      seeing what it looked like.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if there would be money for the boat launch area.

      Mr. Dobbins explained that the City funded the boat launch area itself, but that the County
      was going to fund the other improvements in the parking lot area. Because the County
      withdrew some of that money staff needs a better handle on what that number was and
      could supplement that with the City’s park impact fee money.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery was interested in seeing what that number was and also
      wanted the same number for the all abilities park.

      Mayor Walker said that there were some pretty awesome plans for Rotary Park where the
      boat launch would be. He felt it would become a real jewel of a place.

5.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #20-27, authorizing the filing of eminent domain actions
      to acquire real property for the purpose of widening and improving Lone Peak
      Parkway (Legislative Action)

      This item has been continued to the June 16, 2020, City Council Meeting.

6.1   Councilmember Mike Green moved to continue the Item to the June 16, 2020, City
      Council Meeting. Councilmember Tasha Lowery seconded the motion.

      Councilmember Tasha Lowery asked if the motion to move the item meant that they would
      not be able to get the project done this year. Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that
      he hoped that moving the item did not prevent them from finishing the project, but that he
      could not say for sure.

      A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Recess to a Municipal Building Authority Meeting

                                         Page 14 of 15
7.1   Councilmember Marsha Vawdrey moved to recess to a Municipal Building Authority
      Meeting. Councilmember Mike Green seconded the motion.

7.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Adjournment

5.1   Councilmember Mike Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember Tasha
      Lowery seconded the motion.

5.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:54 p.m.




                                      Page 15 of 15
