                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                     September 30, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Rockwell Station – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0141-2021
        Applicant:        Adam Watts, representing Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens and Gary
                          Sturdevant.
        Project Location: 696 E. 12100 S and 12150 S. 700 E.
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:          1.33 Acres (Approximately 57,935 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1
                          zone regarding changing the zoning designation from RA1 to CN
                          (Neighborhood Commercial).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.33 acres located at the southeast corner of the intersection of 12100 S. and 700 E., at
approximately 696 E 12100 S and 12150 S. 700 E. (Exhibit C). The property is currently
zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to
change the zoning designation from RA1 to CN to allow for future development of the
property.

The Zoning Map Amendment request consists of 3 parcels (Exhibit B), one owned by Gary
Sturdevant and two by Brad and Lisa Stevens. The parcel owned by Gary Sturdevant is
vacant. A single family home built in 1949 together with other related accessory
appurtenances are located on the parcels owned by the Stevens. The parcels were created



Rockwell Station                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0141-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                 1
from various portions of lots 1, 2, 7 and 8 of block 24 within the original Draperville
subdivision plat.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA1 zoning abuts the subject property on the west,
and is also found across 12100 S. Street to the north and northeast of the property. CN
zoning abuts the property to the south and RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft2
minimum lot size) is found across 700 E. Street to the west.



Rockwell Station                                                     App. # TEXTMAP-0141-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     2
Zoning Map Amendment. The proposal to zone the property for commercial use is in line
with the general plan land use map designation of neighborhood commercial. The current
RA1 zoning designation is not consistent with the general plan land use map for the subject
property. The area along 700 East is generally in transition at this time and other zoning
changes pertaining to commercial development have recently been approved by the City
Council along this transportation corridor. The applicant is looking to rezone the entire
property for potential commercial office buildings (Exhibit F).

Criteria For Approval. A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit




Rockwell Station                                                    App. # TEXTMAP-0141-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including,
                but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.




Rockwell Station                                                    App. # TEXTMAP-0141-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    4
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Adam
Watts, representing Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens, and Gary Sturdevant for application
TEXTMAP-0141-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated September 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Adam
Watts, representing Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens, and Gary Sturdevant for application
TEXTMAP-0141-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated September 30, 202, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment, as requested by Adam Watts,
representing Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens, and Gary Sturdevant for application TEXTMAP-
0141-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report
dated September 30, 2021.




Rockwell Station                                               App. # TEXTMAP-0141-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                  5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The applicant has provided an updated legal description of the outer
              boundary of the area proposed to be rezoned for review. The updated
              description will be provided within the proposed ordinance to the Draper
              City Council at the time of their review.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing 1.33
       acres to be zoned from RA1 to CN in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-
       060(E) of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the
       adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property. In making
       an amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors. Accordingly,
       the following comments are recommended for your consideration:

       The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
       including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
       protection, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies, and waste water
       and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.

              a.      The increase in density from two residential units per zoning to
                      community commercial zoning constitutes significant traffic increase
                      to and from the subject area. One single family residential structure
                      constitutes up to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on
                      industry standard vehicle trip tables. Based on use tables, there are
                      high traffic uses permitted in the zone. This increase in traffic would
                      be limited to 700 East, an arterial street designed to accommodate the
                      greatest volume of traffic in the city. Traffic issues in the area are at
                      peak travel times, as well as school beginning and ending times in the
                      area. Expansion of 700 East in the area is a future Utah Department of
                      Transportation (UDOT) project.
               b.       Connectivity with this lot to a public right-of-way is to 700 East, an
                        arterial street owned by UDOT. Specific access locations will be
                        evaluated with any site plan or subdivision submittal. Access locations
                        will be required to meet Draper City Standards as outlined in our
                        Master Transportation Plan and according to UDOT standards. A
                        Traffic Impact Study may be required with a site plan or subdivision
                        application based on the proposed use and projected traffic volume.
               c.       There are no existing storm drainage facilities available to the subject
                        area. Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed
                        with any subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the
                        provisions of the development requirements within the Draper City
                        Municipal Code.

               d.       Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer
                        District. Any subdivision application will require a commitment to
                        serve from the Sewer District that facilities are adequate to provide
                        service for the proposed uses.

               e.       Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision
                        application will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro
                        that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

       Accordingly, we will provide comments relative to the potential construction
       activities when the appropriate application is received.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.



Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.



GIS Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.
                                      EXHIBIT B
                                 LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS




Parcel 28-29-154-002:
Beginning at the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, and running thence
South 96.30 feet; thence West 203 feet; thence North 96.30 feet; thence East 203 feet to the
point of beginning. Together with a portion of the vacated street abutting on the North.



Parcel 28-29-154-003:
A portion of Lots 7 and 8, Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, described as follows: Beginning at a point
South 96.30 feet from the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 24, Draperville and running
thence South 184.20 feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner of said Lot 8, thence West
203.00 feet to the Carma Barlow Tract; thence along fence North 184.20 feet, more or less,
to a point 96.30 feet South of the North line of said Lot 8; thence East 203.00 feet to the
point of beginning.

Parcel 28-92-301-002:
The North 1 rod of Lots 1 and 2 of Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, excepting therefrom the West
36.25 feet of the North 1 rod of Lot 2.
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
            EXHIBIT F
APPLICANTS APPLICATION RESPONSES
                                     ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

                                696 E 12100 S DRAPER, UT PARCEL: 2829154002
                         700 E 12150 S DRAPER, UT PARCEL: 2829154003, 2892301002

LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS:

696 E

Beginning at the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, and running thence South 96.30 feet; thence
West 203 feet; thence North 96.30 feet; thence East 203 feet to the point of beginning. Together with a portion
of the vacated street abutting on the North.

700 E

Parcel 1: A portion of Lots 7 and 8, Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, described as follows: Beginning at a point South
96.30 feet from the Northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 24, Draperville and running thence South 184.20 feet, more
or less, to the Southeast corner of said Lot 8, thence West 203.00 feet to the Carma Barlow Tract; thence along
fence North 184.20 feet, more or less, to a point 96.30 feet South of the North line of said Lot 8; thence East
203.00 feet to the point of beginning.

Parcel 2: The North 1 rod of Lots 1 and 2 of Block 24, DRAPERVILLE, excepting therefrom the West 36.25 feet of
the North 1 rod of Lot 2.


                                             PROPERTY LOCATION
PROPERTY MAPS

PRESENT CLASSIFICATION   PROPOSED CLASSIFICATION
RA1                      CN
1.   The requested zoning designation is Neighborhood Commercial (CN).

2.   This rezone request is aimed at providing a mix of office uses that better serve the residential neighborhood through the
     development of these parcels. Given that the current residential growth in and around the Salt Lake area, and more specifically
     Draper, further commercial development is warranted along major and minor arterial roads including 700 E. With the
     development of all available commercial space along 12300 South and 11400 South, the natural flow for future commercial
     development is taking place along 700 E which includes these properties. In addition, given that the general map indicates that
     these particular parcels are slated to be classified as CN, and from the fact that each lot that abuts these parcels to the South
     were recently rezoned to CN and the properties that we developed to the Southeast, we believe that both of the parcels should
     follow suit by being rezoned from RA1 to CN.

3.   Directly to the southeast of this parcel, across 700 E, we recently developed a two-building, small-scale medical/dental office
     subdivision under existing CN zoning. Four parcels to the south, we are also currently constructing an office building developed
     under a CN rezone. We feel the requested zoning designation would be harmonious with the overall character as it would
     continue the economically invigorating redevelopment of this section of 700 E (12100 -12200 S), while also respecting the
     character of adjacent neighborhoods.

4.   Given our collaboration and developments along 700 E with Rocky Mountain Power, we understand that 3-phase power will be
     available to this site. We will continue development discussions with utility providers, but we have found the utilities to be
     sufficient in the area for our neighboring developments under the proposed zoning and attach (see page 9) a WaterPro
     provided utility map specifying that culinary water and irrigation is available to the site along with sewer.

5.   The proposed zoning designation aligns with the Draper City General Land Use Plan, as it would objectively enhance the link
     between a non-residential land use and adjacent residential zoning. This Neighborhood Commercial zoning would allow for the
     revitalization of an underutilized vacant parcel, with the intent to provide a variety of employment opportunities and business
     offerings for the residents of Draper. Our goal is to contribute to the smart infill growth and mirror the character of our prior
     developments along the 700 East corridor.
DEVELOPMENT IN VICINITY OF SUBJECT PROPERTY




700 E DRAPER MEDICAL                          DRAPER SURGICAL PROPERTIES SUBDIVISION
693 E 12200 S                                 723 E 12200 S




                                                               SURROUNDING USES

                                                               (CN) 4 parcels to the south
                                                               (adjacent parcel also submitted
                                                               for rezone to CN)

                                                               (O-R) immediately South of
                                                               12200 S

                                                               CN to the South-East (across
                                                               700 E)

                                                               RA1 to North and West

                                                               RA2 to the East (across 700 E);
                                                               General Map shows CN




SERVICE/ OFFICE: CO1, CO2, OR
