                                             GROUND LEASE AGREEMENT

        This Ground Lease Agreement (the “Agreement”) is made and effective as of the date the last Party
executes this Agreement (the “Effective Date”), by and between Draper City, a municipal corporation, having a
place of business at 1020 Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020 (“Landlord”), and DISH Wireless L.L.C., a Colorado
limited liability company having a place of business at 9601 S. Meridian Blvd., Englewood, Colorado 80112
(“Tenant,” and together with Landlord, the “Parties,” each a “Party”).

                                                     WITNESSETH:

1. Definitions.

     “Affiliate(s)” means, with respect to a Party, any person or entity, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled
by, or under common control with such Party, in each case for so long as such control continues. For purposes of
this definition, “control” shall mean (i) the ownership, directly or indirectly, or at least fifty percent (50%) of either:
(a) the voting rights attached to issued voting shares; or (b) the power to elect fifty percent (50%) of the directors
of such entity, or (ii) the ability to direct the actions of the entity. Notwithstanding the preceding, for purposes of
this Agreement, EchoStar Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be “Affiliates”
of Tenant unless after the Effective Date any such entity qualifies as a direct or indirect subsidiary of DISH Network
Corporation.

     “Applicable Law” means any applicable federal, state or local act, law, statute, ordinance, building code, rule,
regulation or permit, or any order, judgment, consent or approval of any Governmental Authority having
jurisdiction over the Parties or this Agreement.

     “Governmental Authority” means any: (i) federal, state, county, municipal, tribal or other local government
and any political subdivision thereof having jurisdiction over the Parties or this Agreement; (ii) any court or
administrative tribunal exercising proper jurisdiction; or (iii) any other governmental, quasi-governmental, self-
regulatory, judicial, public or statutory instrumentality, authority, body, agency, bureau or entity of competent
jurisdiction.

    “Installation” means the installation of Tenant’s Communications Facility at the Premises.

    “Property” means that certain parcel of real property more particularly described in Exhibit A.

    “Tenant’s Communications Facility” means Tenant’s communications fixtures and related equipment, cables,
accessories and improvements, which may include a suitable support structure, associated antennas, equipment
shelters or cabinets and fencing, as well as any lines, wires, cables, circuits, conduits, poles, and associated
equipment, improvements, fixtures and appurtenances for any utility or similar services, together with any other
items, fixtures, improvements, and equipment that Tenant, in its sole and absolute discretion, deems beneficial
and/or necessary to Tenant’s Permitted Use of the Premises.

2. Premises, Term, Rent and Contingencies.

        2.1     Premises. Landlord is the owner of the Property located at 15021 South Traverse Ridge Road
Draper UT 84020 Landlord leases to Tenant a portion of Landlord’s Property consisting of an approximately 150
square feet parcel (the “Lease Area”), together with a non-exclusive right of way and easement for ingress and
egress and for the installation of lines, wires, cables, circuits, conduits, poles, and associated equipment,
improvements, fixtures and appurtenances for utility and similar services, over, under and along a eight feet (8’)

                                                            1
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                      Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                                   Lease Version: 1.0MJF
wide area extending from the nearest public right of way to the Lease Area (together with any additional
easements or rights of way described hereinbelow, the “Easements”). The Lease Area and Easements are initially
described in Exhibit B and are collectively referred to as the “Premises”. Landlord also grants to Tenant: (a) the
right to use any of the Landlord’s available electrical systems and/or fiber installed at the Property to support
Tenant’s Communications Facility: and (b) any of the Landlord’s easements on, over, under, and across the
Property for utilities, fiber, and/or similar services and access to the Premises. Landlord agrees that providers of
utilities, fiber, and/or similar services may use such Easements and/or available conduit(s) for the installation of
any equipment necessary to provide utilities, fiber, and/or similar services to the Premises. If the existing utility
or fiber sources located within the Premises or on the Property are insufficient for Tenant’s Permitted Use or if
Tenant or any utility company or third party provider of services to the Tenant is unable to use the Easements,
then Landlord agrees to grant Tenant and/or the applicable utility company and/or third party service provider
the right, at Tenant’s sole cost and expense, to install such utility, fiber, and/or similar services on, over and/or
under the Property as is necessary for Tenant’s Permitted Use; provided that Landlord and Tenant shall mutually
agree on the location of such installation(s).

         2.2     Term. This Agreement shall be effective as of the Effective Date. The initial term of this Agreement
(the “Initial Term”) will commence on the first (1st) day of the month following the commencement of Tenant’s
Installation (the “Commencement Date”), and will expire 11:59 PM on the day immediately preceding the fifth
(5th) anniversary of the Commencement Date unless terminated sooner, renewed or extended in accordance with
this Agreement. The Initial Term shall automatically renew for up to four (4) additional terms of sixty (60) months
each (each, a “Renewal Term” and together with the Initial Term, the “Term”). However, Tenant may, in Tenant’s
sole and absolute discretion, elect not to renew the lease at the end of the then-current Term by giving Landlord
written Notice at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the then-current Term. The Parties agree that, subject
to the Contingencies, this Agreement constitutes a binding and valid obligation on each Party and that each Party
has vested rights in this Agreement as of the Effective Date.

       2.3      Rent. Beginning on the Commencement Date and continuing through the term of this Agreement,
Tenant shall pay Landlord rent for the Premises (“Rent”) in the amount of THREE HUNDRED and 00/100 Dollars
($300.00) per month. The first Rent payment shall be made within twenty (20) business days of the
Commencement Date, with subsequent rent payable by the fifth day of each month. On each anniversary of the
Commencement Date, the Rent shall be automatically increased by three percent (3%) of the then-current Rent.
Payments shall be delivered to the address designated by Landlord in Section 12.11, or by electronic payment. All
payments for any fractional month shall be prorated based upon the number of days during such month that the
payment obligation was in force (“Payment Terms”). Tenant shall require receipt of a validly completed IRS
approved W-9 form (or its equivalent) prior to paying any Rent or any other amount(s) due under this Agreement.


          2.4     Contingencies. The Parties acknowledge and agree that Tenant’s ability to lawfully use the
Premises is contingent upon Tenant obtaining all certificates, permits, approvals and other authorizations that
may be required by any Governmental Authority in accordance with Applicable Law (collectively, the
“Governmental Approvals”). Tenant will endeavor to obtain all such Governmental Approvals promptly. Landlord
hereby authorizes Tenant, at Tenant’s sole cost and expense, to file and submit for Governmental Approvals.
Landlord shall: (a) cooperate with Tenant in Tenant’s efforts to obtain such Governmental Approvals- by promptly
executing and delivering all documents necessary to obtain and maintain the Government Approvals; and (b) not
take any action that would adversely affect Tenant’s ability to obtain and/or maintain third-party Governmental
Approvals; and (c) approve Governmental Approvals that comply in all respects with Draper City Municipal Code.
If: (i) any application for Governmental Approvals is rejected, conditioned, materially delayed or otherwise not
approved for any or no reason; or (ii) Tenant determines, in Tenant’s sole and absolute discretion, that such
Governmental Approvals cannot be obtained in a timely and commercially reasonable manner (clauses (i) and (ii)
                                                         2
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                 Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                              Lease Version: 1.0MJF
collectively, the “Contingencies”), then, Tenant shall have the right in its sole and absolute discretion to terminate
this Agreement immediately upon Notice to Landlord, without penalty or further obligation to Landlord (or
Landlord’s affiliates, employees, officers, agents or lenders). If, following the Commencement Date, and through
no fault of Tenant, any Governmental Approval issued to Tenant is canceled, expires, lapses or is otherwise
withdrawn or terminated by the applicable Governmental Authority, then Tenant shall have the right in its sole
and absolute discretion to terminate this Agreement upon ninety (90) days’ Notice to Landlord without penalty
or further obligation to Landlord (or Landlord’s affiliates, employees, officers, agents or lenders). If this Agreement
is terminated, this Agreement shall be of no further force or effect (except as set forth to the contrary herein).

3. Use, Access and Modifications to Tenant’s Communications Facility.

         3.1      Tenant’s Permitted Use. Landlord agrees that Tenant may use the Premises for the purpose of the
installation, operation, maintenance and management of Tenant’s Communications Facility (including, without
limitation, the right to transmit and receive radio frequency and other communications signals), which shall
include the right to replace, repair, add, or otherwise modify any or all of Tenant’s Communications Facility and
the frequencies over which Tenant’s equipment operates (“Tenant’s Permitted Use”). Landlord acknowledges
and agrees that if radio frequency signage and/or barricades are required by Applicable Law, Tenant shall have
the right to install the same on the Property.

        3.2     Access. Commencing on the Effective Date and continuing throughout the Term, Tenant, its
employees, agents and contractors shall have unrestricted access to the Premises 24 hours per day, 7 days per
week and at no additional cost or expense to Tenant. Further, Landlord grants to Tenant the right of ingress and
egress to the Premises.

        3.3      Modifications to Tenant’s Communications Facility. Tenant’s initial Installation of Tenant’s
Communications Facility, as well as any subsequent additions, repairs, replacements, upgrades or other
modifications to and the frequencies and technologies utilized in connection therewith, shall be at the sole and
absolute discretion and option of Tenant. If any addition, replacement, upgrade, or other modification to Tenant’s
Communications Facility necessitates long-term or permanent expansion of Tenant’s exclusive Lease Area, then
Tenant shall first obtain Landlord’s approval. At Tenant’s request, Landlord agrees to enter into an amendment to
this Agreement documenting any approved expansion of Tenant’s Lease Area, as well as a recordable
memorandum.

4. Utilities, Liens and Taxes.

         4.1     Utilities. Tenant may have its own utility meter installed in a mutually agreed upon location.
Tenant may use and make reasonable modifications to the Premises’ electrical system to accommodate the
electrical requirements of Tenant’s Equipment at Tenant’s sole cost and expense.

         4.2      Liens. Tenant will use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent any lien from attaching to the
Property or any part thereof. If any lien is filed purporting to be for labor or material furnished or to be furnished
at the request of Tenant, then Tenant shall do all acts necessary to discharge such lien by payment, satisfaction or
posting of bond within ninety (90) days of receipt of Notice of the same from Landlord; provided, that Tenant may
contest any such lien if Tenant provides Landlord with cash or a letter of credit in the amount of said lien as
security for its payment within such ninety (90) day period, and thereafter diligently contests such lien. In the
event Tenant fails to deposit the aforementioned security with Landlord and fails to pay any lien claim after entry
of final judgment in favor of the claimant, then Landlord shall have the right to expend all sums reasonably
necessary to discharge the lien claim.


                                                          3
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                   Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                                Lease Version: 1.0MJF
         4.3      Taxes. Landlord shall pay all taxes that accrue against the Property during the Term. If any such
tax or excise is levied or assessed directly against Tenant, then Tenant shall be responsible for and shall pay the
taxing authority. Tenant shall be liable for all taxes against Tenant’s personal property or Tenant’s fixtures placed
in the Premises, whether levied or assessed against Landlord or Tenant. Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with
Tenant, at Tenant’s expense, in any appeal or challenge to Taxes. If, as a result of any appeal or challenge by
Tenant, there is a reduction, credit or repayment received by Landlord for any Taxes previously paid by Tenant,
Landlord agrees to promptly reimburse to Tenant the amount of said reduction, credit or repayment. If Tenant
does not have the standing rights to pursue a good faith and reasonable dispute of any Taxes under this section,
Landlord will pursue such dispute at Tenant’s sole cost and expense upon written request of Tenant.

5. Interference.

Tenant agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that Tenant’s Communications Facility does not
cause measurable Interference (as defined below) with any equipment installed at the Property as of the Effective
Date. Following the Effective Date, Landlord agrees not to install or to permit others to install any structure or
equipment which could block or otherwise interfere with any transmission or reception by Tenant’s
Communications Facility (“Interference”). If Interference continues for a period more than forty-eight (48) hours
following a Party’s receipt of notification thereof, Landlord shall cause any interfering party to cease operating,
and/or relocate, the source of Interference, or to reduce the power sufficiently to minimize the Interference until
such Interference can be remedied.

6. Maintenance and Repair Obligations.

         6.1      Landlord Maintenance of Property. Landlord represents and warrants that, as of the Effective
Date, the Property is in compliance with Applicable Law. Throughout the term of this Agreement, Landlord shall
maintain, at its sole cost and expense, the Property (excluding the Premises) in good operating condition and in
compliance with all Applicable Laws. Landlord shall not have any obligation to maintain, repair or replace
Tenant’s Communications Facility except to the extent required due to the acts and/or omissions of Landlord,
Landlord’s agents, or contractors. In addition, Tenant may take all actions necessary, in Tenant’s reasonable
discretion, to secure and/or restrict access to Tenant’s Communications Facility by third parties.

        6.2     Tenant Maintenance of Tenant’s Communications Facility. Tenant assumes sole responsibility for
the maintenance, repair and/or replacement of Tenant’s Communications Facility, except as set forth in Section
6.1. Tenant agrees to perform all maintenance, repair or replacement of Tenant’s Communications Facility
(“Tenant Maintenance”) in accordance with Applicable Law, and in a good and workmanlike manner. Tenant
shall not be permitted to conduct Tenant Maintenance in a manner that would materially increase the size of the
Premises.

7. Surrender and Hold Over.

         7.1     Surrender. Except as set forth to the contrary herein, within ninety (90) days following the
expiration or termination of this Agreement (the “Removal Period”), in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, Tenant will remove Tenant‘s Communications Facility (excluding footings, pads conduits, pipes,
fixtures and improvements to the extent any of the foregoing are installed underground and/or below grade) and
surrender the Premises to Landlord in a condition similar to that which existed immediately prior to Tenant’s
Installation together with any additions alteration and improvements to the Premises, in either case, normal wear
and tear excepted. The Parties acknowledge and agree that Rent will accrue during the Removal Period. However,
if Tenant’s Communications Facility is not removed during the Removal Period, Tenant will be deemed to be in
Hold Over (as defined in Section 7.2 below) until Tenant’s Communications Facility is removed from the Premises.

                                                         4
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                 Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                              Lease Version: 1.0MJF
Tenant shall have the right to access the Premises or remove any or all of Tenant’s Communications Facility from
the Premises at any time during the Term or the Removal Period.

        7.2     Hold Over.       If Tenant occupies the Premises beyond the Removal Period without Landlord’s
written consent (“Hold Over”), Tenant will be deemed to occupy the Premises on a month-to-month basis,
terminable by either Party on thirty (30) days’ written Notice to the other Party. All of the terms and provisions of
this Agreement shall be applicable during that period, except that Tenant shall pay Landlord a rental fee equal to
the then current monthly Rent applicable at the expiration or termination of the Agreement, prorated for the
number of days of such hold over.

8. Default, Remedies and Termination.

         8.1     Default. If any of the following events occur during the Term (each a “Default”), then the non-
Defaulting Party may elect one or more of the remedies set forth below in this Section 8 or seek any other remedy
available: (a) Tenant’s failure to make any payment required by this Agreement within thirty (30) days after receipt
of written Notice from the Landlord of such failure to pay; (b) failure by either Party to observe or perform any
provision of this Agreement where such failure: (1) continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written Notice
thereof from the non-Defaulting Party and the Defaulting Party has failed to cure or commenced the cure of such
Default; and/or (2) based upon Tenant’s reasonable determination, materially affects Tenant’s ability to transmit
or receive wireless communications signals to or from the Premises; (c) either Party files a petition in bankruptcy
or insolvency or for reorganization or arrangement under the bankruptcy laws or under any insolvency act of any
state, or admits the material allegations of any such petition by answer or otherwise, or is dissolved or makes an
assignment for the benefit of creditors; and/or (d) involuntary proceedings under any such bankruptcy law or
insolvency act or for the dissolution of either Party are instituted against either Party, or a receiver or trustee is
appointed for all or substantially all of the property of either Party, and such proceeding is not dismissed, or such
receivership or trusteeship vacated within sixty (60) days after such institution or appointment.

       8.2      Remedies. Upon the occurrence of any uncured Default, the non-Defaulting Party may thereafter
terminate this Agreement immediately upon written Notice to the other Party without prejudice to any other
remedies the non-Defaulting Party may have at law or in equity.

        8.3      Termination. Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without further liability
upon thirty (30) days prior written Notice to Landlord due to any one or more of the following: (i) changes in
Applicable Law which prohibit or adversely affect Tenant’s ability to operate Tenant’s Communications Facility at
the Premises; (ii) Tenant, in its sole discretion, determines that Tenant’s Permitted Use of the Premises is obsolete
or unnecessary; (iii) Landlord or a third party installs any structure, equipment, or other item which blocks,
hinders, limits, or prevents Tenant from being able to use the Tenant Communications Facility for Tenant’s
Permitted Use.

9. Limitation of Liability and Indemnification.



        9.1    No Waiver of Governmental Immunity Act. Landlord is a governmental entity under the
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (Utah Code Ann. §63G-7-101, et seq. (1953 as amended) (the “Act”)). Nothing
in this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver by Landlord of any rights, limits, protections or defenses
applicable under the Act, including, without limitation, the provisions of § 63G-7-604 regarding limitations of
judgments. This Agreement shall not be construed, with respect to third-parties, as waiver of any governmental
immunity to which Landlord is entitled.

                                                          5
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                  Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                               Lease Version: 1.0MJF
         9.2      Tenant’s Indemnity. Except to the extent caused by the breach of this Agreement by Landlord or
the acts or omissions of Landlord, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, or any other person or entity for
whom Landlord is legally responsible, Tenant shall defend, indemnify and hold Landlord and its officers, directors,
shareholders, employees, agents and representatives (“Landlord’s Representatives”) harmless from and against
any and all claims, demands, litigation, settlements, judgments, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses (including,
without limitation, reasonable attorneys’ fees) (individually or collectively, a “Claim”) arising directly or indirectly
out of: (i) any act or omission of Tenant, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, or any other person or entity
for whom Tenant is legally responsible (“Tenant’s Representatives”); or (ii) a breach of any representation,
warranty or covenant of Tenant contained or incorporated in this Agreement. Tenant’s obligations under this
Section 9.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement for two (2) years.

          9.3      Landlord’s Indemnity. Except to the extent caused by the breach of this Agreement by Tenant or
the acts or omissions of Tenant or Tenant’s Representatives, , Landlord shall defend, indemnify and hold Tenant,
its officers, directors, shareholders, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and against any and all
Claims arising directly or indirectly out of: (i) any act or omission of Landlord, its officers, agents, employees,
contractors or any other person or entity for whom Landlord is legally responsible; (ii) a breach of any
representation, warranty or covenant of Landlord contained or incorporated in this Agreement; and/or (iii) the
generation, possession, use, storage, presence, release, spill, treatment, transportation, manufacture,
refinement, handling, production and/or disposal of Hazardous Substances in, on, about, adjacent to, under or
near the Premises and/or the Property, and/or any contamination of the Premises and/or the Property by any
Hazardous Substance, but only to the extent not caused by Tenant or Tenant’s Representatives. Landlord’s
obligations under this Section 9.3 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement for two (2)
years.

        9.4       Indemnification Procedure. The Party seeking indemnification (the “Indemnified Party”) shall
promptly send Notice to the Party from whom indemnification is being sought (the “Indemnifying Party”) of the
claim or suit for which indemnification is sought. The Indemnified Party shall not make any admission as to liability
or agree to any settlement of or compromise any claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying
Party. The Indemnified Party shall, at the Indemnifying Party request and expense, give the Indemnifying Party all
reasonable assistance in connection with those negotiations and litigation.

10. Insurance.

        10.1 Landlord Obligations. Throughout the Term, Landlord shall maintain, at Landlord’s sole cost and
expense, the following insurance coverage Commercial General Liability of not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate. All such policies shall be endorsed to include Tenant as an additional
insured. Subject to the policy minimums set forth above in this Section 10.1, the insurance required of Landlord
hereunder may be maintained by a blanket or master policy that includes properties other than the Property.

         10.2 Tenant Obligations. Throughout the Term, Tenant shall maintain, at Tenant’s sole cost and
expense, the following insurance coverage: (i) workers’ compensation insurance with no less than the minimum
limits required by Applicable Law; (ii) employer’s liability insurance with such limits as required by Applicable Law;
and (iii) Commercial General Liability with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000
aggregate. All such policies shall be endorsed to include Landlord as additional insured.

         10.3 Insurance Requirements. All policies required by this Section 10 shall be issued by insurers that
are (1) licensed to do business in the state in which the Property are located, and (2) rated A- or better by Best’s


                                                           6
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                    Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                                 Lease Version: 1.0MJF
Key Rating Guide or insured by a governmental insurance pool or self-insured with appropriate reserves to pay
claims.

         10.4 Waiver of Subrogation. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Landlord and Tenant for
themselves and any and all parties claiming under or through them, including, without limitation, their respective
insurers, hereby mutually release and discharge each other and the other’s Affiliates, and their respective officers,
directors, shareholders, agents, employees, contractors, and/or any other person or entity for whom a Party is
legally responsible from any claims for damage to any person or to the Premises or any other real or personal
property that are or are claimed to have been caused by or result from risks insured against under any insurance
policies carried by the waiving party and in force at the time of such damage and hereby waive any right of
subrogation that might otherwise exist in or accrue to any person on account thereof. All policies required to be
carried by either Party herein shall contain an endorsement in favor of the other Party waiving the insurance
company’s right of subrogation against such other Party. THIS RELEASE SHALL APPLY EVEN IF THE LOSS OR
DAMAGE IS CAUSED BY THE FAULT OR NEGLIGENCE OF A PARTY HERETO OR BY ANY PERSON FOR WHICH SUCH
PARTY IS RESPONSIBLE. EACH PARTY AGREES TO NOTIFY ITS INSURANCE CARRIER(S) OF THIS PROVISION.

11. Representations and Warranties.

         11.1 Representations and Warranties. Landlord represents, warrants and covenants that: (a) Landlord
has the right and authority to execute and perform this Agreement; (b) there are no liens, judgments or other title
matters materially and adversely affecting Landlord’s title to the Property; (c) there are no covenants, easements
or restrictions that prevent the use of the Premises for Tenant’s Permitted Use; (d) the Premises are in good repair
and suitable for Tenant’s Permitted Use; (e) Landlord will comply with all federal, state, and local laws in
connection with any substances brought on to the Property that are identified as toxic or hazardous by any
Applicable Law, ordinance or regulation (“Hazardous Substance”); and (f) Tenant’s use and quiet enjoyment of
the Premises shall not be disturbed. Landlord is responsible for any loss or damage, including remediation, with
respect to Hazardous Substances as per Applicable Law. Landlord understands and agrees that notwithstanding
anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event shall Tenant have any liability whatsoever with
respect to any Hazardous Substance that was on, about, adjacent to, under or near the Property prior to the
Effective Date, or that was generated, possessed, used, stored, released, spilled, treated, transported,
manufactured, refined, handled, produced or disposed of on, about, adjacent to, under or near the Property by:
(1) Landlord, its agents, employees, contractors or invitees; or (2) any third party who is not an employee, agent,
contractor or invitee of Tenant.

12. Miscellaneous.

        12.1 Assignment and Subletting. Tenant has the right to sublease the Premises or assign or otherwise
transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the approval of Landlord.
Upon notification to Landlord of an assignment or transfer of this Agreement, Tenant will be relieved of all future
performance, liabilities and obligations under this Agreement to the extent of such assignment.

         12.2 Rights Upon Sale of Property. Should Landlord, at any time during the Term, sell or transfer all or
any part of the Property to a purchaser other than Tenant, such transfer shall be subject to this Agreement and
Landlord shall require any such purchaser or transferee to recognize Tenant’s rights under the terms of this
Agreement in a written instrument signed by Landlord and the third party transferee. If Landlord completes any
such transfer without executing such a written instrument, then Landlord shall not be released from its obligations
to Tenant under this Agreement, and Tenant shall have the right to look to Landlord and the third party for the
full performance of this Agreement. In addition to, and not in limitation of the preceding, in the event the Landlord
sells or transfers either its rights in all or any portion of the Premises or Landlord’s right to the receive the Rent

                                                          7
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                  Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                               Lease Version: 1.0MJF
(and other payments) derived from the Premises under this Agreement, in either case separate from the
underlying Property, to any third party who is not an Affiliate of Landlord, then prior to any such sale or transfer
Landlord shall first provide Tenant with a right of first refusal (“ROFR”) to acquire such right(s). In order to
evaluate the terms and conditions offered to Landlord by such third party Landlord shall provide Tenant with a
full, complete and unredacted copy thereof and Tenant shall have thirty (30) days from receipt thereof to elect to
exercise its ROFR; provided that Tenant’s exercise of the ROFR shall be on the same terms and conditions as
offered to Landlord by such third party (except as may be mutually agreed upon to the contrary).

         12.3 Subordination and Non-Disturbance. This Agreement shall be subordinate to any mortgage, deed
of trust, or other security agreement (each a “Mortgage”) by Landlord which, from time to time, may encumber
all or part of the Property; provided, however, the lender under every such Mortgage shall, in the event of a
foreclosure of Landlord’s interest, recognize the validity of this Agreement and Tenant’s right to remain in
occupancy of and have access to the Premises, as long as no Default by Tenant exists under this Agreement. If
the Property is encumbered by a Mortgage, then Landlord shall, promptly following Tenant’s request, obtain and
furnish to Tenant a non-disturbance agreement, in recordable form, for each such Mortgage.

         12.4 Condemnation. If all or any portion of the Premises is condemned, taken by a Governmental
Authority or otherwise appropriated by the exercise of the right of eminent domain or a deed or conveyance in
lieu of eminent domain (each, a “Taking”), either Party hereto shall have the right to terminate this Agreement
immediately upon Notice to the other Party. If either Party elects to terminate this Agreement, the Rent set forth
herein shall be abated, and Tenant’s liability therefor will cease as of the date of such Taking, this Agreement shall
terminate as of such date, and any prepaid rent shall be returned to Tenant. If this Agreement is not terminated
as herein provided, then it shall continue in full force and effect, and Landlord shall, within a reasonable time after
possession is physically taken by the condemning authority restore the remaining portion of the Premises to
render it reasonably suitable for the uses permitted by this Agreement and the Rent shall be proportionately and
equitably reduced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord shall not be obligated to expend an amount greater
than the proceeds received from the condemning authority less all expenses reasonably incurred in connection
therewith (including attorneys’ fees) for the restoration. All compensation awarded in connection with a Taking
shall be the property of Landlord, provided that if allowed under Applicable Law, Tenant may apply for and keep
as its property a separate award for (i) the value of Tenant’s leasehold interest; (ii) the value of Tenant’s
Communications Facility or other personal property of Tenant; (iii) Tenant’s relocation expenses; and (iv) damages
to Tenant’s business incurred as a result of such Taking.

         12.5 Recording. If requested by Tenant, Landlord and Tenant agree to execute a Memorandum of
Lease that Tenant may record at Tenant’s sole cost and expense. The date set forth in the Memorandum of Lease
is for recording purposes only, and bears no reference to commencement of the Term or rent payments of any
kind.

        12.6 Force Majeure. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, neither Party shall
be liable to the other Party for nonperformance or delay in performance of any of its obligations under this
Agreement due to causes beyond its reasonable control, including, without limitation, strikes, lockouts,
pandemics, labor troubles, acts of God, accidents, technical failure governmental restrictions, insurrections, riots,
enemy act, war, civil commotion, fire, explosion, flood, windstorm, earthquake, natural disaster or other casualty
(“Force Majeure”). Upon the occurrence of a Force Majeure condition, the affected Party shall immediately notify
the other Party with as much detail as possible and shall promptly inform the other Party of any further
developments. Immediately after the Force Majeure event is removed or abates, the affected Party shall perform
such obligations with all due speed. Neither Party shall be deemed in default of this Agreement to the extent that
a delay or other breach is due to or related to a Force Majeure event. A proportion of the Rent herein reserved,
according to the extent that such Force Majeure event shall interfere with the full enjoyment and use of the

                                                          8
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                   Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                                Lease Version: 1.0MJF
Premises, shall be suspended and abated from the date of commencement of such Force Majeure event until the
date that such Force Majeure event subsides. If such Force Majeure event prevents the affected Party from
performing its obligations under this Agreement, in whole or in part, for a period of forty-five (45) or more days,
then the other Party may terminate this Agreement immediately upon Notice to the affected Party.

        12.7 Successors and Assigns. The respective rights and obligations provided in this Agreement shall
bind and shall continue to apply for the benefit of the Parties hereto, their legal representative, heirs, successors
and permitted assigns. The rights granted to Tenant herein shall extend to any subtenant’s of Tenant without
necessity in each instance of expressly stating so.

        12.8 Governing Law and Construction. This Agreement shall be construed, governed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the state in which the Premises is located. The section and paragraph headings
contained in this Agreement are solely for reference purposes, and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

         12.9 Severability. Each provision of this Agreement shall be construed as separable and divisible from
every other provision and the enforceability of any one provision shall not limit the enforceability, in whole or in
part, of any other provision. If a court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction holds any provision of this
Agreement to be invalid, illegal, void or less than fully enforceable as to time, scope or otherwise, such provision
shall be construed by limiting and reducing it so that such provision is valid, legal and fully enforceable while
preserving to the greatest extent permissible the original intent of the parties; the remaining terms and conditions
of this Agreement shall not be affected by such alteration, and shall remain in full force and effect.

         12.10 Waiver; Remedies.          It is agreed that, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the
rights and remedies herein provided in case of Default or breach by either Landlord or Tenant are cumulative and
shall not affect in any manner any other remedies that the non-breaching Party may have by reason of such default
or breach. The exercise of any right or remedy herein provided shall be without prejudice to the right to exercise
any other right or remedy provided herein, at law, in equity or otherwise. In addition to, and not in limitation of,
the preceding, the Parties acknowledge and agree that there will not be an adequate remedy at law for
noncompliance with the provisions of Section 5, and therefore either Party shall have the right to equitable
remedies, including, without limitation, injunctive relief and specific performance.

         12.11 Notice. All notices or requests that are required or permitted to be given pursuant to this
Agreement must be given in writing by certified US mail (postage pre-paid) with return receipt requested or by
courier service (charges prepaid), or solely in the case of notice to Landlord by email, to the party to be notified,
addressed to such party at the address(es) or email address(es) set forth below, or such other address(es), email
address(es) or fax number(s) as such Party may have substituted by written notice (given in accordance with this
Section 12.11) to the other Party (“Notice”). The sending of such Notice to the proper email address (in the case
of email transmission) or the receipt of such Notice (in the case of delivery by first-class certified mail or by courier
service) will constitute the giving thereof.

           If to be given to Landlord:                               If to be given to Tenant:
           [Draper City]                                             DISH Wireless L.L.C.
           Attn: City Manager                                        Attn: Lease Administration
                                                                     5701 South Santa Fe Blvd.
                                                                     Littleton, Colorado 80120




                                                           9
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                    Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                                 Lease Version: 1.0MJF
          If by first-class certified mail:
          1020 Pioneer Road
          Draper,UT84020




        12.12 Entire Agreement. This Agreement sets forth the entire, final and complete understanding
between the Parties hereto regarding the subject matter of this Agreement, and it supersedes and replaces all
previous understandings or agreements, written, oral, or implied, regarding the subject matter of this Agreement
made or existing before the date of this Agreement. Except as expressly provided by this Agreement, no waiver
or modification of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed
by both Parties. Any provision of this Agreement that logically would be expected to survive termination or
expiration, shall survive for a reasonable time period under the circumstances, whether or not specifically
provided in this Agreement.

        12.13 Compliance with Law. Each Party shall, with respect to its actions and/or inactions pursuant to
and in connection with this Agreement, comply with all applicable statutes, laws, rules, ordinances, codes and
governmental or quasi-governmental orders or regulations (in each case, whether federal, state, local or
otherwise) and all amendments thereto, now enacted or hereafter promulgated and in force during the term of
this Agreement, a Renewal Term or any extension of either of the foregoing.

        12.14 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of identical counterparts and, if
so executed, shall constitute one agreement, binding on all the Parties hereto, notwithstanding that all the Parties
are not signatories to the original or the same counterpart. Execution of this Agreement by facsimile or electronic
signature shall be effective to create a binding agreement and, if requested, Landlord and Tenant agree to
exchange original signed counterparts in their possession.

        12.15 Attorneys’ Fees. If an action is brought by either Party for breach of any covenant and/or to
enforce or interpret any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover its costs,
expenses and reasonable attorneys’ fees, both at trial and on appeal, in addition to all other sums allowed by law.

       12.16 Incorporation of Exhibits. All exhibits referenced herein and attached hereto are hereby
incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.


                       [Remainder of page intentionally left blank. Signature page follows.]




                                                        10
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                             Lease Version: 1.0MJF
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this
       Agreement as of the Effective Date.


LANDLORD:                                            TENANT:

Draper City                                          DISH WIRELESS L.L.C.


By:       ________________________________           By:     ________________________________

Name: ________________________________               Name: ________________________________

Its:      ________________________________           Its:    ________________________________

Date:     ________________________________           Date:   ________________________________




                                                    11
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                        Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                     Lease Version: 1.0MJF
                                                    EXHIBIT A

                                       LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY




 COM S 89 DEG 59' 57" E 27.34 FT FR NW COR. SEC. 15, T4S, R1E, SLB&M.; S 89 DEG 59' 57" E 276.78 FT; S 0 DEG 3'
25" E 426.43 FT; N 89 DEG 59' 53" W 301.17 FT; S 78 DEG 33' 32" W 148.77 FT; S 61 DEG 37' 56" W 140.28 FT; S 49 DEG
30' 19" W 141.93 FT; N 74 DEG 28' 38" W 78.23 FT; ALONG A CURVE TO R (CHORD BEARS: N 16 DEG 21' 7" E 44.87 FT,
    RADIUS = 1550.86 FT); ALONG A CURVE TO R (CHORD BEARS: N 35 DEG 6' 28" E 170.53 FT, RADIUS = 277 FT);
  ALONG A CURVE TO L (CHORD BEARS: N 44 DEG 40' 52" E 435.29 FT, RADIUS = 1498 FT); ALONG A CURVE TO L
              (CHORD BEARS: N 30 DEG 25' 4" E 117.99 FT, RADIUS = 573 FT) TO BEG. AREA 5.065 AC.




                                                        12
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                                                                Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                                                             Lease Version: 1.0MJF
                                  EXHIBIT B

                           SURVEY AND/OR SITE PLAN




                                     13
Site Number: SLSLC00159A                             Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                                          Lease Version: 1.0MJF
                           14
Site Number: SLSLC00159A        Confidential & Proprietary
Market: SLC                     Lease Version: 1.0MJF
