THE MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING RETREAT HELD ON SATURDAY,
FEBRUARY 27, 2021, IN THE VELVET ROOM AT THANKSGIVING POINT 3003 NORTH
THANKSGIVING WAY

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry,
                    Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:            Councilmember Mike Green

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Kellie
                    Challburg, Chief of Staff; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Jake
                    Sorensen, Network Administrator
OTHER:              Jeff Hartley


CALL TO ORDER by Mayor Troy Walker at 10:18 am

1.0   Andy Ballard Arena events: The discussion began by reviewing the time needed to
      plan big events for the Andy Ballard Arena. With the uncertainty caused by the
      pandemic, it is unclear how many people can be seated in the Arena and whether
      residents are ready for a crowded event. Deposits need to be paid before the event
      and if the event is canceled, the deposits are not always refundable.

      The history of the Moto-challenge and the money spent on past events was
      reviewed. Council members agreed that the Moto-Challenge would attract riders
      and spectators from outside of Draper, even from out of state.

      There was discussion about what percentage of other cities are planning summer
      activities or events, how much staff time would be required to hold events, whether
      mass gathering permits would be needed, and the idea of holding smaller
      “neighborhood” events throughout the city, rather than one or two big events.


2.0   Draper Days: Discussion about Draper Days Events centered around how big the
      event would be in 2021. The consensus was that there would be no booths and that
      the committee was looking at fireworks and a concert. There was a discussion about
      the number of attendees and how to limit the crowds to a safe number.


3.0   Food Truck Court: Staff was looking at whether local restaurants had objections to a
      food truck court. There was discussion about locations for a court, legal aspects of
      allowing a court, and whether having food trucks come to various parks would be
      preferable.
4.0   Eduroam: The council discussed the feasibility of installing Eduroam Wifi throughout
      the city to help those who do not have internet access in their home. This is an
      initiative of the Canyons School District, called the Canyons Connect Initiative. There
      aren’t internet connections at most of the parks and Salt Lake County was
      concerned about liability. Some cities were using mobile options.


5.0   Canyons Educational Foundation: The Foundation does a gala every year, but last
      year the gala was canceled and the money the city paid was used as a contribution.
      There was a discussion about how the city would support the Foundation.

*** Mayor Walker left the meeting at 10:50 am


6.0   All-abilities Park: The discussion began by reviewing where the City stood on
      creating an All-abilities park. The county funding is tied to tourism and it was unclear
      when the funds would be available to help pay for an All-Abilities Park.

**** Mayor Walker returned to the meeting at 10:55 am

      Jenson Farms Park was a possible location for an All-Abilities park because it had not
      been built yet.

      Draper Park was another suggestion for the All-abilities equipment since it had
      equipment that needed replacement and could be finished sooner.

      Councilmembers discussed what could be put in Draper parks to update them,
      including ideas to trade volleyball/basketball courts for pickleball courts.

7.0   Parks & Rec programs: Currently the city is renting space for recreation programs
      from the Canyons School District. The discussion centered on whether there was a
      need to build a city Recreation Center, possibly one that could be multipurpose.
      Costs and maintenance were also discussed.

8.0   Tree Commission: The Draper City Municipal Code pertaining to trees is being
      reviewed by staff to make it clearer for staff and residents. The discussion included
      how to beautify the city’s entrances, especially at 14600 South. The city would have
      to work with the Utah Department of Transportation since they own the land
      around the on and off-ramps
      The use of water-wise plantings was discussed and how to encourage homeowners
      to plant water-wise plants.

      Upper Corner Canyon Road continued closure was discussed for this year due to the
      lack of water this winter.
9.0    Vacant Commercial Properties: The council discussed some of the vacant
       commercial properties in Draper. Everyone agreed that these areas needed to be
       developed.

10.0 Public Relations: Questions were brought forth about keeping the momentum that
     had been gained since hiring a Communications Director. The city has done a good
     job with communication with the residents and needs to continue to push
     information to residents on the City's website.

11.0 Jeff Hartley, a lobbyist, presented to the council on the bills currently before the
     Utah State Legislature: Mr. Hartley discussed many of the bills that would
     affect the City, and how the Utah League of Cities and Towns supports the
     various cities they represent.

12.0   Draper City Branding: A suggestion was made that Draper become a brand similar
       to Park City. Draper’s open space and trails are attractive and help bring people and
       businesses to the city.

13.0   City Staff Support: A Staff Appreciation Day and more interaction between the
       council and the staff were discussed.

14.0   Boards and Commissions: There was a discussion about how the Boards and
       Commissions can be better supported. Suggestions ranged from having each Board
       report to the Council annually, updating City Code for clarity, and annual direction
       from the Council.

15.0   Chamber of Commerce: The City currently pays dues to both the South Valley
       Chamber of Commerce and the Draper Chamber of Commerce. It would be ideal if
       both of them would work together.

       Council members stated they would like to bring back the Brown Bag Lunch with a
       Councilmember or something similar, possibly starting in April.

16.0   Adjournment: Councilmember F. Lowry Moved to adjourn the retreat. The meeting
       adjourned at 1:06 pm
