Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 18, 2021
Re: Highpointe Center Site Plan and Minor Subdivision Requests Comments: This application is a request for approval of a site plan and minor subdivision for approximately 5.46 acres located on the southwest corner of Bangerter Parkway and Highland Drive, at approximately 14658 S. Bangerter Parkway.  The property is currently zoned CR .  The applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as an office building and a minor subdivision to create two lots from one lot.  The site is vacant at this time. The findings are as follows: For approval:
Building Height Deviation
1.  The proposed height shall not have a material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public health, safety and general welfare.
2.  The proposed height shall be constructed and arranged so as to be compatible with the use and development of neighboring properties with respect to scale and massing.
3.  The building will be designed to relate to the human scale and incorporate at least one of the following:
a.  Architectural detailing included on the ground floor to emphasize the pedestrian level of the building, including, but not limited to, intermediate cornice line, sign band, awnings or portico feature, change in building materials, and window shape.
b.  Include architectural detailing at the cornice level or accentuated building zones, when appropriate to the architectural style of the building.
c.  The roofline contains architectural features that give it a distinctive form or skyline, or the rooftop is designed for purposes such as rooftop gardens, common space for building occupants or the public, viewing platforms, shading or daylighting structures, renewable energy systems, and other similar uses.
Site Plan
1.  The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is approved.
2.  A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.  The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.  The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
Minor Subdivision
1.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
2.  The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code.
3.  The proposed development conforms to the general aesthetic and physical development of the area.
4.  The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.
For denial:
Building Height Deviation
1.  The proposed height will have a material adverse effect upon the character of the area or the public health, safety and general welfare.
2.  The proposed height will not be constructed and arranged so as to be compatible with the use and development of neighboring properties with respect to scale and massing.
3.  The building is not designed to relate to the human scale.
Site Plan
1.  The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the CR zoning district in which the site is located.
3.  The public facilities and services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans do not comply with the one or more of the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 11/10/2021 Backup Material