Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 2, 2021
Re: City Initiated Land Use Buffer Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to Draper City Municipal Code Sections 9-23-110 and 9-3-040. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to amend fencing requirements and other aspects of land use buffers for commercial, multifamily and industrial properties.
At the January 14, 2021 Planning Commission meeting the Planning Commission voted 5-0 to forward a positive recommendation on  the ordinance text as proposed  to the City Council together with an additional request that staff look into the use of hedgerows described in 9-23-110(C)(2)(c).  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4. The proposed amendment creates a conflict other sections or parts of this title or the general plan.
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have not been fully evaluated, or are detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and do not represent an overall community benefit.
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1474 1/26/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 1/26/2021 Cover Memo