Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: November 16, 2021
Re: Highline Office 2 CSD – Text Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to the CSD-Highline zoning district located on the southeast corner of Future Way and Highland Dr., at approximately 14761 South Future Way. The Text Amendment will specially affect the listed uses on 6.5 acres of property within the CSD-Highline zoned area. The applicant is requesting that a Text Amendment be approved to allow for an office development on the property.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their October 28, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 4-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1511 11/9/2021 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 11/9/2021 Cover Memo