Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: December 9, 2021
Re: Elite Carpal Tunnel Zoning Text Amendment Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment to the DC zone.  The applicant is requesting that a text amendment be approved to allow for ‘medical service’ uses to be permitted in the DC zoning designation.  The Destination Commercial (DC) zone is generally located on the west side of Interstate 15 and north of Bangerter Highway. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 12/3/2021 Backup Material