Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: July 20, 2021
Re: City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2 Request Comments: This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah State Code.
The 2021 Utah State Legislative Session and subsequent 2021 Utah State Legislative Special Session saw several bills that dealt with land use regulations and subdivisions. Draper City now has to amend the DCMC in order to comply with the new regulations.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their June 24, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on the application with a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendments are consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the Development Codes.
3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development Codes.
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall community benefit.
5. The proposed text amendments implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are consistent with state law.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendments are not consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2. The proposed amendments do not further the specific purpose statements of the Development Codes.
3. The proposed amendments are not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the Development Codes.
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare and do not represent an overall community benefit.
5. The proposed text amendments do not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are not consistent with state law. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1497 7/13/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 7/13/2021 Cover Memo