Draft minutes 7/8/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, JULY 8, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners Mary Squire and John Van
                      Hoff, Alternate Commissioners DeLaina Tonks, Susan Nixon, and Tab
                      Bingham

ABSENT:               Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioners Gary Ogden, and Lisa
                      Fowler

STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                      Amie Salazar and Todd Draper

6:30 PM Business Meeting:

Chairperson Andrew Adams called the meeting to order.

1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for June 24, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Susan Nixon motioned to approve the June 24, 2021 Minutes.

Second: Commissioner Mary Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Public Hearing: Draper Lodging LLC Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)

On the request of Gureet Grover, representing Draper Lodging LLC, for a Plat Amendment on
2.71 acres of land located at 12033 South State St in the CR zone. Application SUBD-679-2019.
Staff contact: Jennifer Jastremsky, 801.576.6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, provided a brief overview of the subject property noting
that it had a land use designation of Community Commercial and a zoning designation of
Regional Commercial. She indicated that the applicant wanted to split the lot into two pieces, so
the hotel and outdoor recreation were separated with their own parking areas. She noted there
would be a shared access area for the two lots.

Commissioner Tab Bingham inquired how many units the hotel had.

Ms. Jastremsky replied that she did not remember but staff did ensure that the parking that
remained on the property was sufficient for the number of units.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 2
Gureet Grover, Applicant, noted the hotel was 60 units. He noted that they had not made any
decisions about further development of the lots but simply wanted it separated if they wanted to
do so in the future.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing portion of the meeting. No comments were offered,
and the public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner John Van Hoff motioned to approve the Plat Amendment as
requested by Gureet Grover, representing Draper Lodging LLC, for the Draper Lodging
LLC Plat Amendment, Application SUBD-679-2019, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 25, 2021

Second: Commissioner Susan Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Summit Commerce Center Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On the request of Mark McKee representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter
Draper Land, LLC a Site Plan request for approximately 26.937 acres located at approximately
77 W. Golden Harvest Rd. / 13004 S. Pony Express Rd. Application SPR-0014-2021. Staff
Contact: Todd Draper, 801.576.6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, City Planner, provided an aerial map of the site and noted that it was designated as
a business and light manufacturing land use area and zoned M1 (Light Manufacturing). He
presented the site plan and noted that the proposed building was pushed to the left side of the
property so another building could come in on the right side in the future. He indicated that plans
met landscaping requirements. Elevation renderings were shown and indicated the facade would
consist of three main colors. He pointed out that they were requesting deviations from the
required variations along the roof line as well as on sides of the building for portions of over 100
feet of uninterrupted horizontal surfaces on the north and south facades. He shared that the
applicant also requested they be allowed to use a different color of the same material rather than
a different material to meet other facade requirements. He explained that lighting plans met
requirements except for the division of the average by the max which is intended to make
lighting uniform. He noted that there was not going to be lighting in the vacant portion at this
time which is why the lighting was uneven. He stated that they would be putting in an 8-foot-tall
fence with a 15-foot landscape buffer along portions of the property that bordered residential
homes.

Commissioner Tonks asked for further clarification on the requested deviations.

Mr. Draper explained there were four deviation requests three of which are related. He noted that
three dealt with vertical or horizontal articulation along the walls. He noted that there were some
articulations along the outside walls but that they did not strictly meet the specific regulations.



                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 3
Commissioner Von Hoff asked if the applicant was working with engineering regarding the
access points that did not currently meet their requirements.

Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager replied that the applicant had a traffic engineer
provide a write up on the offsets regarding the access points. He noted the write up indicated the
access points would not create a safety hazard and that none of the studies showed traffic outside
of the acceptable levels of service required. He pointed out that the site was required to direct
traffic to Pony Express Road until they can finish the analysis on the structural capacity of
Golden Harvest Road.

Reed Hart, Applicant, stated that in areas where they did not strictly comply with the code that
they were complying with the intent of the code.

Commissioner Tonks asked the applicant to discuss their selection of pedestrian connectivity for
their deviation option.

Mr. Hart indicated the minimum requirement was to have pedestrian areas. He noted they have
created two amenity areas near the building with shade trees.

Commissioner Nixon asked if they could add some of the same articulation found on the corner
entry along the sides of the building to break up the long stretches of wall.

Mr. Hart expressed that it was difficult because the loading docks needed to be flat, but they
could investigate adding some accent panels and more color.

Chairman Adams stated that his big concern was that the vacant grass field remained nice until
something else goes in.

Mr. Hart noted they plan for the field to only be vacant for about two months.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing for this item. No comments were made, and the
public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Van Hoff remarked that variation in the paint color makes a big difference in the
look of the large tilt up concrete buildings.

Chairman Adams inquired if the applicant was required to follow the color schemes in the
renderings.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that they were required to follow the approved colors.

Chairman Adams asked for clarification as to the blue color on the plans

Ms. Jastremsky clarified that the blue color was representative of glass.




                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 4
Mr. Hart clarified that the blue glass represented transparent glass. He noted the gray glass on the
entrance feature would be opaque.

Commissioner Tonks stated that she believed the applicant met each of the requirements for each
of the deviations.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to approve the deviation request from horizontal
and vertical facade articulation as requested by Mark McKee representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest LLC and Exeter Draper Land LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center, Application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report dated June 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the deviation request from
significant horizontal facade articulation as requested by Mark McKee representing
ARCO Design/Build Southwest LLC and Exeter Draper Land LLC for the Summit
Commerce Center, Application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated June 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the request for roofline and parapet
deviations requested by Mark McKee representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest LLC
and Exeter Draper Land LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, Application SPR-0014-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated
June 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to approve the deviation from materials variation
as requested by Mark McKee representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest LLC and
Exeter Draper Land LLC for the Summit Commerce Center, Application SPR-0014-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 29,
2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks


                                                 4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 5

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to approve the site plan as requested by Mark
McKee representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest LLC and Exeter Draper Land LLC
for the Summit Commerce Center, Application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Draper Warehouse Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On the request of Adam Webber, property owner, for approval of a site plan application. The
applicant is requesting to construct a new office/warehouse building on the east half of the
property. The property is located at approximately 106 E. 13200 South in the CG (General
Commercial) zone and is approximately 0.94 acres in size. Application SPR-1127-2021. Staff
contact: Maryann Pickering, 801.576.6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, City Planner, introduced the item and noted that the property was partial
built in 2000 and was in the community commercial land use designation and general
commercial zoning designation. She explained that the applicant was proposing to build another
warehouse structure on the east side of the property with shared parking between the two
buildings. She noted that since the primary building use was warehousing, they would be able to
meet the parking requirements. She shared that they planned to keep existing landscaping with
the addition of some shrubs, trees, and rock mulch around the building. She stated that the
exterior was primarily CMU with some stone and other accent materials. She explained that it
was a two-story building and complied with the 35-foot height limit.

Adam Webber, Applicant, indicated that they have run out of space in their existing building and
desired to expand their usable space with the proposed structure.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing on the item. No comments were offered, and the
public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Bingham motioned to approve the site plan request as requested by
Adam Webber, property owner for Draper Warehouse, Application SPR-1127-2021, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


                                               5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 6

5.     Public Hearing: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #1 (Legislative Action)

On the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to Tiles 9 and 17 of Draper city Municipal
Code in order to amend general regulations pertaining to definitions, permitted use reviews,
conditional use permits, site plan reviews, landscaping, addressing, appeals, land use buffers,
parking, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, development standards, and other
typographical and de minimis corrections. This application is known as the City Initiated 2021
Bulk Text Amendments #1. Application TEXTMAP-0018-2021. Staff contact: Todd Draper,
801.576.6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Mr. Draper explained the purpose of the bulk amendments was to update the Draper City
Municipal Code and keep it regularly maintained. He noted that most of the proposed changes
were a response to changes in related laws and regulations and to offer greater clarity. He
indicated the definitions for adversely affected party and primary entrance would be added. He
pointed out minor word and grammar changes as well as other clarifications. He briefly reviewed
other minor changes to the site plan submittal requirements and indicated that the drainage plan
was given its own separate section. He pointed out changes to the appeals sections regarding site
plans, variances, building permits, non-conforming uses, sign permits, temporary use permits,
administrative interpretations, and appeal of administrative decisions. He shared that due to
changes in state law they have made changes to the development standards regarding setbacks
for single-family and two-family dwellings in RM1 and RM2 residential zones. He stated that
additions were made to landscaping requirements regarding storm water infrastructure. He
indicated there was a proposal to remove text regarding on-street parking and other updates made
to compact parking space regulations. He noted that they have proposed striking all the current
ordinance language regarding swimming pools and replacing it with a new section for outdoor
pools.

Commissioner Tonks pointed out that state code allowed for a 10-day time period to file an
appeal, but their code was inconsistent and allowed for 10 days, 14 days, or 15 days depending
on the section.

Ms. Jastremsky replied that she did not know what the reasoning was behind the inconsistency in
the code. She noted they could ask for the dates to be made similar if they desired.

Commissioner Tonks asked if paper submissions were required in addition to electronic.
Ms. Jastremsky responded that they usually did not. She clarified that they started going
paperless last year.

Commissioner Tonks inquired, in reference to section D under architectural renderings, if
separate signage permits were required.

Mr. Draper explained that a separate sign permit was required but they wanted to see signage
location and size on the architectural renderings.

Commissioner Tonks asked if there was an appeal process for site plans.


                                                6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
July 8, 2021
Page 7

Ms. Jastremsky indicated that there was and could be found in section 9-5-090(F). She noted that
it follows the same process as other appeal processes.

Chairman Adams opened the meeting up for a public hearing on the item. No comments were
made, and the public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the text amendment as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2021
Bulk Text Amendments #1, Application TEXTMAP-0018-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated June 28, 2021, with the amendment
to make the appeals time period consistent throughout the sections of the code.

Second: Commissioner Bingham

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

6.     Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to adjourn the meeting.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Bingham, Van Hoff, Tonks, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

The meeting adjourned 7:53 p.m.




                                               7
