Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: December 14, 2021
Re: Meadows of Draper – Zoning and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments for approximately 3.82 acres located on the west side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 286 West River Chapel Rd. The property is currently zoned A2 . The applicant is requesting that Zoning and Land Use Map Amendments be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as residential townhomes.
The Planning Commission reviewed this application on November 18, 2021 and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote for both the zoning map amendment and the land use map amendment. The findings are as follows: The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposed land use map amendment complies with DCMC Section DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
The findings for denial as are follows:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
6.   The proposed land use map amendment does not comply with DCMC Section DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1517 12/9/2021 Cover Memo Ord 1518 12/9/2021 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 12/7/2021 Cover Memo