                                    ORDINANCE NO. 1501


AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLES 9, 11, 17,
18 OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING IMPROVEMENT
COMPLETION ASSURANCES.


       WHEREAS, Titles 9, 11, 17, and 18 each partly address methods the city utilizes to
secure public improvements and restoration of public infrastructure; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to address provisions to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Draper; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed text amendments and finds
good cause to revise the terms and provisions of Titles, 9, 11, 17, and 18.

      NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER
CITY, STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings
to amend Titles 9, 11, 17, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) The proposed
amendments are in compliance with the Utah Code Annotated. 2) The proposed amendments are
in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Draper.

       Section 2. Revision. Titles 9, 11, 17, and 18 of the Draper City Municipal Code are
hereby amended to read as shown in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference.

        Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to correct any
punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors prior to submitting the Ordinance
to the codifier.

        Section 4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final
passage.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THIS 21st DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2021.

ATTEST:                             DRAPER CITY



_________________________________   _____________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder       Mayor Troy K. Walker
VOTE TAKEN:             YES      NO

Councilmember Green     ______   ______

Councilmember Lowery    ______   ______

Councilmember Roberts   ______   ______

Councilmember Vawdrey   ______   ______

Councilmember Lowry     ______   ______

Mayor Walker            ______   ______
                                       EXHIBIT A
9-1-190: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION:


Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 9-1-195, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title.


9-1-195: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:


   A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required 9-1-190. For purposes
      of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is
      defined as codified in Utah Code §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of
      an improvement completion assurance limited by this code are:

          1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
             of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
          2. Cash;
          3. A cash bond
          4. A cashier’s check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
             of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
          5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
             50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
             upon default; or
          6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the community
             development director and the city attorney.

   B. Improvements secured by an improvement completion assurance must be
      accompanied by an improvement completion assurance agreement. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify the manner and
      timeframe for the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.
17-4-070: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION:


Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 17-4-075, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title following Planning Commission approval and prior to recording a plat.
17-4-075: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:


   A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required by this title. For
      purposes of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion
      assurance is defined as codified in Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103 except that the
      acceptable forms of an improvement completion assurance limited by this code
      are:

           1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
              of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
           2. Cash;
           3. A cash bond;
           4. A cashier’s check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
              of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
           5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
              50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
              upon default; or
           6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the City Engineer,
              and the City Attorney.

   B. Each person who provides an improvement completion assurance must also enter
      into an improvement completion assurance agreement with the city. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify additional details for
      the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.


17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
        A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all residential
subdivisions within the City detailing the landscaping in all public and common areas of
the development and any other area required to be landscaped as a condition of
development approval. In addition, whenever the Planning Commission determines
there are areas within developments which warrant screening, buffering, or are of
sufficient size or visibility to warrant special treatment, the developer may be required to
provide a landscaping plan for such areas for review and approval by the City. All
landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of the landscaped areas will be
performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to Draper City standards
and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that best serve the
intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be appropriate for the
local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. When required by the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the nature or size of the proposed
landscaping, developers may be required to have the landscaping plans prepared and
stamped by a registered landscape architect.
  A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with the final plat
application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover within
park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required to support the
designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar deep watering
systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the landscaping plan.
       B. Street Trees:
               1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in
       Draper City shall provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to
       reduce heat, dust, glare and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and
       oxygenate the air; to reduce road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil
       health; to mask undesirable views and enhance pleasing views; to develop
       continuity among developments; and to generally enhance the appearance of the
       City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A street tree plan,
       which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the Draper City tree
       guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions. The
       subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required number,
       species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to the
       issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.
               2. Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement completion
       assurance and accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070 and
       DCMC 17-4-075 is required for street tree installation with all subdivision. The
       subdivider shall post an improvement completion assurance with the City prior to
       recording any subdivision or phase of each subdivision. The amount shall be set
       by the City and shall be sufficient to cover the cost of providing trees for the
       individual lot, but shall not be less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) per
       required tree. Funds from an improvement completion assurance will be held by
       the Draper City Community Development Department, and shall not be released
       until a site inspection has verified the proper tree installation has occurred, in
       accordance with the procedure outlined below:
       Total street tree and park strip landscaping amounts shall be calculated by
       multiplying the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and
       landscaping plan by three hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in
       an estimated landscaping and irrigation systems cost. This amount shall be
       posted with each subdivision or phase of a subdivision prior to the recording of
       any final or minor plat. During the construction and occupancy of homes within a
       subdivision, subdivider would have two (2) annual opportunities to reduce or
       refund a portion of the improvement completion assurance. These reductions
       shall be linked to the installation of the street trees as described on the street tree
       planting plan.
       Annual opportunities for reduction shall occur once in the spring, between April 1
       and May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to November 30.
       These dates are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the hottest
       times of the year for a higher establishment success rate.
        3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
       irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In
       areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb,
       street trees shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees
       shall be installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed
       by the City Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems
       shall be professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an
       automatic watering system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting
       plan. The developer shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential
       subdivision which shall be reviewed by the Draper City Community Development
       Department and forwarded to the Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning
       Commission. A diversity of species is encouraged to minimize the danger of losing
       an entire monospecific planting to blight, insects or some other species specific
       condition. After installation by the subdivider, individual homeowners are
       responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of required park strip street trees.


11-6-140: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES
A. Improvement Completion Assurance Required: Except as noted in this chapter, before
being issued a permit, each applicant shall provide the city with an improvement
completion assurance as defined by 17-4-075 in an amount determined by the city
engineer to guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted
pursuant to this chapter.
B. Exception For Franchise: Public utilities franchised by the city shall not be required to
provide an improvement completion assurance if such requirement is expressly waived
in the franchise documents.



18-4-010: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES FOR LAND DISTURBANCE
PERMITS:

Following city engineer approval but prior to holding a preconstruction conference and commencing
construction, an applicant for a land disturbance permit shall enter into an improvement completion
assurance agreement and provide an improvement completion assurance as defined by 17-4-075 to
ensure proper restoration and revegetation of the land disturbed by activities and construction
pursuant to the provisions of this title.
                                    EXHIBIT B
                                 REDLINE CHANGES
9-1-190: IMPROVEMENT AND PERFORMANCE BONDSCOMPLETION:
A. All private improvements required under this title or by the city planning
commission, including, but not limited to, buildings, fences, landscaping, and parking,
shall be satisfactorily installed prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the land
being developed. In lieu of actual completion of such improvements and prior to
occupancy permit issuance, a developer may file with the city a cash bond or a letter of
credit in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
completion costs, to ensure completion of improvements within one year. The estimate
of costs shall be provided by the developer's contractors. After bonding for the
improvements, the developer is eligible for temporary occupancy. Upon completion of
the improvements for which such bond has been filed, the developer shall call for
inspections of the improvements by the zoning administrator or an authorized agent.
The bond shall be released and permanent occupancy granted after verification that the
improvements have been installed per the approved plans.
B. If the city determines that the required private improvements should be completed in
a specified sequence or in less than a one year period in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the city or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other
hazards, it may require in approving the bond that the improvements be installed in a
specified sequence and period which may be less than one year and shall incorporate
such requirements in the bond.
C. The improvements covered under subsections A and B of this section are in addition
to and separate from any improvement bonds, escrow deposits or letters of credits
required by the engineering division for public improvements.
Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 9-1-195, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title.


9-1-195: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:


   A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required 9-1-190. For purposes
      of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is
      defined as codified in Utah Code §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of
      an improvement completion assurance limited by this code are:

           1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
              of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
           2. Cash;
           3. A cash bond
           4. A cashier’s check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
              of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
           5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
              50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
              upon default; or
           6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the community
              development director and the city attorney.

   B. Improvements secured by an improvement completion assurance must be
      accompanied by an improvement completion assurance agreement. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify the manner timeframe
      for the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.


11-6-140: BOND; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:IMPROVEMENT
   COMPLETION ASSURANCES:

A.Bond Improvement Completion Assurance Required: Except as noted in this chapter,
   each applicant, before being issued a permit, each applicant shall provide the city
   with an acceptable corporate surety bondimprovement completion assurance as
   defined by 17-4-075 in an amount determined by the city engineer to guarantee
   faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted pursuant to this
   chapter. The amount of the bond required may be increased or decreased at the
   discretion of the city engineer whenever it appears that the amount and cost of the
   work to be performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may vary from the amount of
   bond otherwise required under this chapter. The form of the bond and the entity
   issuing the bond shall be subject to the approval of the city attorney.



B. Exception For Franchise: Public utilities franchised by the city shall not be required to
   file a corporate surety bondprovide an improvement completion assurance if such
   requirement is expressly waived in the franchise documents.

C. Conditions: The bond required by this section shall be conditioned as follows:
1. The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city ordinances and
regulations, specifications and standards promulgated by the city relative to work in the
public way, and respond to the city in damages for failure to conform therewith;
2. After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence and expedition
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public way to construction
specifications, so as not to obstruct the public way or travel thereon more than is
reasonably necessary;
3. The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a period of two (2)
years from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and tear excepted; and
4. Unless authorized by the city engineer on the permit, all paving, resurfacing or
replacement of street facilities on major or collector streets shall be done in
conformance with the regulations contained herein within three (3) calendar days, and
within seven (7) calendar days from the time the excavation commences on all other
streets, except as provided for during excavation in winter or during weather conditions
which do not allow paving according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary
patch must be provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be
made immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is expected
to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed construction
schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods to minimize
traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as reasonably possible.




17-4-070: SECURITY           FOR      REQUIRED        IMPROVEMENTSIMPROVEMENT
COMPLETION:
A. Following Planning Commission approval but prior to recording, the
Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 17-4-075, a subdivider
shall completemust install all required public landscaping and infrastructure
improvements; however, upon the subdivider's request, the required under this title
following Planning Commission and prior to recording a plat.


17-4-075: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:


An applicant may record the plat prior to the installation of all required landscaping and
infrastructure improvements if subdivider has first entered into an provide the city with
an improvement guarantee agreement acceptable to the City as security to
ensurecompletion of all improvements required to be installedassurance as defined
below in the subdivision. The agreement shall be in a form approved by the City
Attorney, shall be signed by the City Engineer and shall state the following: (Ord. 1332,
7-10-2018)an amount 1. The subdivider agrees to complete all improvements within
eighteen (18) months from the date the agreement is executed subject to an extension
granted pursuant to subsection D of this section.
2. The improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of the City and in
accordance with the City's standard specifications and details.
3. The amount of the security shall be equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
subdivider's or developer's engineer's detailed, written estimate of the cost of the
landscaping and infrastructure improvements to be installed, as confirmed and
approved in writing by the City Engineer.
4. The City shall have immediate access to the proceeds.
5. Security proceeds may be reduced upon the written request of the subdivider as
system improvements are completed. The amount of the reduction shall be determined
by the City Engineer. Reductions shall be made only as they apply to the estimated
completion, satisfactory to the City Engineer, of entire systems. The required
landscaping and infrastructure improvements are typically grouped into six (6) system
categories: culinary water, storm drainage, roadways, parks/trails and landscaping,
erosion control and miscellaneous/finish items. Additional categories may be added if
approved by the City Engineer. Such written reduction requests may be made only once
every thirty (30) days and no reduction shall be authorized until such time as the City
Engineer has inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with the
City's standard specifications and details. All reductions shall be by written authorization
of the City Engineer. Substantially completed line items may be released up to ninety
percent (90%) of the established security proceeds per system. Upon completion and
conditional acceptance of all public improvements by the City Engineer, one hundred
percent (100%) of the security proceeds will be released. The remaining ten percent
(10%) of the approved estimated cost of the improvements or an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the subdivider's reasonable proven cost of completion, as approved by
the City Engineer, shall be held until final acceptance by the City Engineer following a
one year improvement assurance warranty.
6. If the proceeds are inadequate to pay the cost of the completion of the
improvements according to the City's standard specifications and details for whatever
reason, including previous reductions, the subdivider shall be responsible for the
deficiency and no building permits shall be issued in the subdivision until the
improvements are completed or, with City Council approval, a new, satisfactory security
has been executed and delivered to the City or other satisfactory arrangements have
been made to ensure completion of the remaining improvements.
7. The City's cost of administration incurred in obtaining the security, including attorney
fees and court costs, shall be deducted from any security proceeds.
8. The subdivider shall guarantee all improvements installed against any damage
arising from any defect in design, construction, materials, or workmanship during the
warranty period and shall promptly repair the same upon notice from the City.
9. The subdivider shall agree to hold the City harmless from any and all liability which
may arise as a result of the improvements which are installed until such time as the City
certifies the improvements are complete and accepts the public improvements at the
end of the warranty period in lieu of an obligation required by this title. For purposes of
this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is defined as
codified in Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of anB. The
improvement guarantee agreement shall be for the full contract price and be of one or
more of the following types as prescribed by the Citycompletion assurance limited by
this code are:
1. An escrow agreement and account with a Federally insured bank or credit union
making proceeds available to the City in the case of the developer's default upon the
City presenting a sight draft at an office located within fifty (50) miles of the City;
2. A letter of credit agreement and irrevocable standby letter of credit with a Federally
insured bank or credit union, with proceeds available to the City in the case of the
developer's default upon the City presenting a signed statement in accordance with the
terms of the letter of credit at an office located within fifty (50) miles of the City; or
3. Cash or cashier's check, for deposit with the City in its accounts.
C. Interest, if any, earned by the City on the deposited sum shall be retained by the
City as reimbursement and an offset for the cost of administering the improvement
guarantee.
       D. The
          1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
             of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
          2. Cash;
          3. A cash bond;
          4. A cashier’s check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
             of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
          5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
             50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
             upon default; or
          6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the City Engineer,
             and the City Attorney.

   B. Each person who provides an improvement completion assurance must also enter
      into an improvement guaranteecompletion assurance agreement with the city. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify additional details for
      the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.


17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all residential subdivisions
within the City detailing the landscaping in all public and common areas of the
development and any other area required to be landscaped as a condition of
development approval. In addition, whenever the Planning Commission determines
there are areas within developments which warrant screening, buffering, or are of
sufficient size or visibility to warrant special treatment, the developer may be required to
provide a landscaping plan for such areas for review and approval by the City. All
landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of the landscaped areas will be
performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to Draper City standards
and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that best serve the
intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be appropriate for the
local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. When required by the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the nature or size of the proposed
landscaping, developers may be required to have the landscaping plans prepared and
stamped by a registered landscape architect.
  A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with the final plat
application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover within
park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required to support the
designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar deep watering
systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the landscaping plan.
B. Street Trees:
1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in Draper City shall
provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to reduce heat, dust, glare
and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and oxygenate the air; to reduce
road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil health; to mask undesirable views and
enhance pleasing views; to develop continuity among developments; and to generally
enhance the appearance of the City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and
vitality. A street tree plan, which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the
Draper City tree guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all
subdivisions. The subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required
number, species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.
2. Tree Bond: Security Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement
completion assurance and accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070
and DCMC 17-4-075 is required for street tree installation is required to be provided
with all subdivision. The subdivider shall post an escrow bond improvement completion
assurance with the City prior to recording any subdivision or phase of each subdivision.
The bond amount shall be set by the City and shall beset in an amount sufficient to
cover the cost of providing trees for the individual lot, but shall not be less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per required tree. Bonds Funds from an improvement
completion assurance will be held by the Draper City Community Development
Department, and shall not be released until a site inspection has verified the proper tree
installation has occurred, in accordance with the procedure outlined below:
  Total street tree and park strip landscaping bond amounts shall be calculated by
multiplying the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and landscaping plan
by three hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in an estimated landscaping
and irrigation systems cost. This bond amount shall be posted with each subdivision or
phase of a subdivision prior to the recording of any final or minor plat. During the
construction and occupancy of homes within a subdivision, subdivider would have two
(2) annual opportunities to reduce or refund a portion of the bond amount.improvement
completion assurance. These reductions of the street tree bond amount wouldshall be
linked to the installation of the street trees as described on the street tree planting plan.
  Annual opportunities for reduction in the street tree bond shall occur once in the
spring, between April 1 and May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to
November 30. These dates are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the
hottest times of the year for a higher establishment success rate.
   3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In areas
where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb, street trees
shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees shall be
installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed by the City
Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems shall be
professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic watering
system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The developer
shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential subdivision which shall be
reviewed by the Draper City Community Development Department and forwarded to the
Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. A diversity of species is
encouraged to minimize the danger of losing an entire monospecific planting to blight,
insects or some other species specific condition. After installation by the subdivider,
individual homeowners are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of required
park strip street trees.


18-4-010: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES FOR LAND
DISTURBANCE RESTORATION AND REVEGETATION GUARANTEE
AGREEMENTPERMITS:

A. Required: Following city engineer approval but prior to holding a preconstruction
conference and commencing construction, an applicant for a land disturbance permit
shall enter into a land disturbance restoration and revegetation guarantee agreement as
securityan improvement completion assurance agreement and provide an improvement
completion assurance as defined by 17-4-075 to ensure proper restoration and
revegetation of the land disturbed by activities and construction pursuant to the
provisions of this title. The agreement shall be in a form approved by the city attorney
and shall be signed by the city engineer.
B. Completion Of Conditions: The applicant shall complete all conditions of the city
engineer's approval of land disturbance activities.
C. Requirements: The agreement shall include the following provisions:
1. Applicant shall complete all land disturbance activities within eighteen (18) months
from the date the agreement is executed, subject to one extension granted by the city
engineer.
2. The restoration and revegetation shall be completed in accordance with the Draper
City land disturbance design and construction standards.
3. The amount of the security shall be equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
applicant's engineer's estimate of probable cost containing a detailed, written estimate
of the cost of the proposed excavation, restoration and revegetation improvements.
Revegetation estimates shall not be less than thirty five cents ($0.35) per square foot for
all estimates submitted and approved by the city engineer. All detailed, written
estimates shall be approved in writing by the city engineer.
4. The city shall have immediate access to the proceeds.
5. Security proceeds for excavation and restoration may be reduced upon written
request of the applicant as specific line items in the cost estimate are completed.
Reductions shall be made only as they may apply to the satisfactory completion of line
items as determined by the city engineer. Written requests may be made only once
every thirty (30) days and no reduction shall be authorized until such time as the city
has inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with the land
disturbance design and construction standards. All reductions shall be by written
authorization of the city engineer. No security shall be reduced below ten percent (10%)
of the estimated cost of the total original posted security until final acceptance by the
city engineer following a one year improvement assurance warranty.
6. Security proceeds for revegetation may be reduced upon written request of the
applicant as specific revegetation line items in the cost estimate are completed. Actual
revegetation costs may be released upon the applicant submitting copies of contractor
invoicing representing actual incurred costs of revegetation. Revegetation expenses
may be released up to but not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the revegetation
guarantee amounts as they apply to the completion of revegetation operations. Such
written reduction requests may be made only once at the completion of the initial
revegetation operation. No revegetation reduction shall be authorized until the city has
inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with the land
disturbance design and construction standards and commitments associated with the
approved revegetation plan. All reductions shall be by written authorization of the city
engineer. No revegetation security shall be reduced below fifty percent (50%) of the
estimated cost of the improvement to be installed until the vegetation is established.
Vegetation is established when the revegetation area exhibits established growth equal
to eighty percent (80%) of visible vegetative cover as witnessed and compared to an
immediately adjacent, undisturbed area of vegetation. If the vegetation is established,
the remaining ten percent (10%) guarantee contingency fund shall be held for a
warranty period of one year.
7. If the security proceeds are inadequate for whatever reason to pay the cost of
completing the restoration and revegetation according to the land disturbance design
and construction standards, including previous reductions, the applicant shall be
responsible for the deficiency. No further construction or land use entitlements shall be
issued for the disturbed property until the improvements are completed or, with city
council approval, a new, satisfactory security has been delivered to the city or other
satisfactory arrangements have been made to ensure completion of the remaining
improvements.
8. The city's cost of administration incurred in obtaining the security upon the
applicant's default, including attorney fees and court costs, shall be deducted from the
security proceeds.
9. The applicant shall guarantee all restoration and revegetation improvements
installed against damage arising from any defect in design, construction, materials, or
workmanship during the warranty period and shall promptly repair the same upon notice
from the city.
10. The applicant shall hold the city harmless from any and all liability which may arise
as a result of the land disturbance operations and activities constructed until such time
as the city certifies the improvements are complete and accepts the restoration and
revegetation at the end of the warranty period as complete.
D. Amount Of Security; Form: The land disturbance restoration and revegetation
guarantee agreement shall be for the full amount of the engineer's estimate of probable
cost as approved by the city engineer, including a ten percent (10%) warranty period
contingency. The security shall be in the form of:
1. An escrow agreement and account with a federally insured bank or credit union
making proceeds immediately available to the city in the case of the applicant's default
upon the city presenting a site draft; or
2. A letter of credit agreement and irrevocable standby letter of credit with a federally
insured bank or credit union, with proceeds available to the city in the case of the
applicant's default upon the city presenting a signed statement in accordance with the
terms of the letter of credit at an office located within twenty five (25) miles of Draper
City.
E. Extension: The land disturbance restoration and revegetation guarantee agreement
may be extended one time for six (6) months. Any subsequent extension shall require
approval by the city council following timely written request by the applicant. (Ord. 1047,
6-4-2013)
