MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING HELD ON
TUESDAY, MAY 18, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH



PRESENT:           Board chair Troy K. Walker, and Board members Mike Green (by
                   phone), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                   Vawdrey

EXCUSED:



STAFF PRESENT:     David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                   Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications
                   Director; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human
                   Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden,
                   Recreation Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                   Finance Director



This meeting was held electronically.

This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code
2- 1-040.



Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)



I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of
the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the
health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby
authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor
location.


The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:



Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes – May 18, 2021
          • Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and
      City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of
      the COVID-19 virus.
          • While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging
      downward trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of
      the Draper population, diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in
      cases and hospitalizations.
          • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
      meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
      with applicable health orders.
          • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health,
      safety, and welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
          • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the
      public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
      participate in public hearings.


Business Meeting



1.0   Call to Order


2.0 Motion: Approval and Consent to Assignment of Rights and Obligations under
BG Vista Station, LC Development Agreements



2.1   Boardmember Vawdrey moved to accept Approval and Consent to
Assignment of Rights and Obligations under BG Vista Station, LC Development
Agreements. Boardmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.



2.2  A roll call vote was taken with Board members Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
Vawdrey, and Walker voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



3.0   Adjourn to a City Council Meeting




Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes – May 18, 2021
3.1  Board member F. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting. Board member T.
Lowery seconded the motion.



3.2  A roll call vote was taken with Boardmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
Vawdrey, and Walker voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



3.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:41 p.m.




Draper City Redevelopment Agency DRAFT Minutes – May 18, 2021
