Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Travis DeJong
CC:  Date: July 20, 2021
Re: Providing Local Consent for a Beer-only Restaurant Alcohol License for Siempre LLC Comments: Siempre LLC located at 1247 E Mike Weir Dr. and doing business in the South Mountain golf clubhouse is seeking local consent from Draper City to obtain a beer-only restaurant license from the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (DABC).
Siempre LLC has provided:
a floor plan of the premises showing where alcohol is to be sold, consumed, and stored;
signed consent stating that the premises will permit any authorized representative from DABC, Draper City, or the Salt Lake County Health Department unrestricted right to enter the premises;
a copy of dram shop insurance coverage;
a copy of a surety bond payable to the DABC; and
a copy of a Bureau of Criminal Identification background check.
Siempre LLC is also applied for and is actively working towards obtaining a business license for the aforementioned location. The findings are as follows: According to DCMC Section 6-4-040:
b.   A beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant, or limited- service restaurant license shall not be granted to any applicant for any location situated within three hundred feet (300') of any community location as measured from the nearest patron entrance of the proposed restaurant by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the property boundary of the community location or within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed restaurant measured in a straight line from the nearest patron entrance of the proposed restaurant to the nearest property boundary of the community location.
Siempre LLC sits more than 300 ft from the nearest community location taking the shortest pedestrian route.
Siempre LLC sits more than 200 ft from the nearest community location measured by a straight line.
According to DCMC Section 6-4-050:
c.   Restriction On Licenses: There shall be no limitation on the number of full-service or limited-service, or beer-only restaurant licenses granted by Draper City. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Packet of Material showing: proximity maps; floor map of business displaying service, storage, and serving areas, liquor liability insurance, DABC bond; consent form allowing City, County, and State access. 6/14/2021 Cover Memo PowerPoint showing distance maps and DCMC requirements 6/17/2021 Cover Memo