                                   Development Review Committee
                                       1020 East Pioneer Road
                                         Draper, UT 84020
                                             January 19, 2021

To:                 Draper City Planning Commission
                    Business Date: January 28, 2021

From:               Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:       Siempre at South Mountain – Site Plan Request
          Application No.:  SPR-994-2020
          Applicant:        Randall Deschamps, representing Siempre LLC
          Project Location: 1247 E Mike Weir Dr.
          Current Zoning:   C-2 (Neighborhood Commercial District) Zone and RM (Multiple Dwelling
                            Unit Residential) Zone
          Acreage:          8.99 Acres (Approximately 391,604ft2)
          Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan on the portion of the South Mountain
                            Golf Course property that contains the Golf Course Club House for the
                            development of a new event center.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 8.99 acres located on the north
side of Mike Weir Dr., at approximately 1247 E Mike Weir Dr. (Exhibit B). The property is currently
zoned C-2 and RM. The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development
of an event center next to the existing South Mountain Golf Course Club House (Exhibit E).

The property is located in the South Mountain Development Agreement area, and is subject to the 1990
Draper City Municipal Code (1990 DCMC) and the South Mountain Design Guidelines (Guidelines). The
golf course is owned by Salt Lake County and was developed in the mid-1990’s. In an effort to revitalize
the golf course, Salt Lake County partnered with the company Siempre LLC to develop anevent center
on the site. The event center has an approved 45 year ground lease with Salt Lake County to utilize 2.13
acres of the 8.99 acre property for the development of the Siempre at South Mountain Event Center
(Event Center).

The 1990 DCMC doesn’t have a process by ordinance that defines an approval process for a property that
is one parcel that is looking at having multiple uses such as an Amended Site Plan process does under the
current DCMC. For this property being under the South Mountain Agreement Area that utilizes the 1990
DCMC, this will be treated as a new Site Plan process.




Siempre at South Mountain                                                                  App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                     1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the C-2 and RM zoning classifications (Exhibit C). According to the 1990
DCMC Section 9-5-3, the purpose of the C-2 zone is to “provide areas, in appropriate locations where
convenience buying outlets may be established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. The
regulations of this district are designated to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which,
in character and scale, are necessary to meet day-to-day needs of area residents.”

According to the 1990 DCMC Section 9-4-030, the purpose of the RM zoning classification is “To
Provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character, providing for maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density
residential unit projects subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use
and based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the city.”

The property is surrounded by the OS (Open Space) zoning designation on the north and west. The RM
zoning designation is located to the east and south. The property is part of the Salt Lake County Golf
Course with residential development to the east, west and south.

Site Plan Layout. The Event Center will be east of the existing clubhouse and will utilize approximately




Siempre at South Mountain                                                                  App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                    2
2.13 acres. The Event Center will have two levels that are approximately 5,100ft² per level. To the east of
the new building will be a courtyard featuring a gazebo where ceremonies will take place. On the west
side of the new building there will be another gazebo/patio area that will be for outdoor dining and events;
this area will be in between the existing clubhouse and the new Event Center (Exhibit E).

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The site will utilize existing landscaping and mountainous terrain as
much as possible but will add large screening trees around the east gazebo to shield the neighborhood to
the east and to act as a sound buffer from the event center during weddings. The 1990 DCMC requires at
least 15% of the property to contain landscaping, but does not include detailed requirements for new
development in C-2 or RM zoning designations. The applicant has submitted a landscape plan for review.
This plan shows 8.8% of the property in manicured landscaping, and 60.8% of the property in native
landscaping (Exhibit G).

Parking and Development Agreement. A Development Agreement was approved on January 19, 2021 by
the Draper City Council for this proposed development. The Agreement evaluated parking based on a
parking study and requires 224 parking stalls, of which 197 stalls are already on site used by the golf
course. The developer will add an additional 7 stalls to be asphalted at the site. Additionally, 20 stalls will
be provided for over-flow parking. These stalls will not be paved but will be geo-grass pavers that are
engineered to act as a solid surface for vehicles to park on. These pavers will be located to the south west
of the existing parking lot and will be maintained by the Event Center. The 1990 DCMC does not allow
for parking spaces which are not paved with concrete or asphalt. All site improvements are proposed
within the C2 zoned area of the property.

Architecture. The 1990 DCMC has limited requirements for architecture compared to the current DCMC.
The proposed Event Center finish materials will be EIFS, various metals, tile and wood (Exhibit F). The
building architecture is mostly Mediterranean style with a few modern designs and has a maximum height
of approximately 30.5-feet. The 1990 DCMC Section 9-4-8(1) limits the site to a two story building,
which the structure complies with. The west side accessory structure (gazebo) will have a 14-foot, metal
style pergola and the ceremony gazebo on the east side the accessory structure (gazebo) will be made of a
tile dome and Roman Tuscan style columns for support. This gazebo will be 23-feet in height and will be
surrounded by large trees for screening. Several conceptual drawings are included as exhibits in this
report (Exhibits H-K).

Lighting. The lighting will be mostly down-facing or shielded by design as to minimize the impact to the
surrounding area, but enough to meet the needs of the Event Center. The 1990 DCMC does not have
requirements like the current DCMC for photometric analysis. The applicant did submit a photometric
analysis that shows light spread and designs similar to current ordinance requirements. The building will
have foot lighting for safety, wall pack lighting, 43-inch shielded Bollard pole lights, and landscaping
illumination. The developer is aware that minimizing the impact to the surrounding residential
neighborhoods is a priority for Draper City. The lights will be off when the facility is closed, after
business hours, including Sundays.

Noise. The Event Center will be in operation during the day and evening between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m., and will have to adhere to Salt Lake County Health Department standards for noise
pollution. The developer is also planting large trees on the east side in an attempt to shield the eastern
neighborhood from noise that is created by events. The City does not have noise regulations and
properties are required to comply with Salt Lake County Health Department standards.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request are found in
Sections 9-2-8, 9-2-9, and 9-2-10 of the 1990 Draper City Municipal Code. This section depicts the
standard of review and approval for complete applications.



Siempre at South Mountain                                                                     App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                      3
          9-2-8. Initial Application Process.
          Any applicant desiring a building, use, or occupancy permit must first make application at the
          designated office of the Building Official/Zoning Administrator located in the City. The
          applicant must submit to the following minimal requirements which may require professional
          preparation or requested documents or plans at applicant's own expense as are set out by the
          Building Official/Zoning Administrator and its staff which shall include but not be limited to the
          following:
          a. Written application
          b. Application fee
          c. Legal description of parcel and I.D. No.
          d. Verification of Ownership
          e. Site plan, which may include a Lot Plan, Concept Plan, Preliminary Plan, Final Plan and /or
          Vicinity Plan.
          f. Building Plan
          g. Upon request by the staff:
          Aerial plats
          Property ownership lists
          Pre-addressed envelopes
          Fire department clearance
          Water and sanitation service certification
          FIRM application and approval
          Certified survey
          Drainage study and approval
          Irrigation Company and/or users
          Geo-technical report
          Off-site improvements construction plans
          Profiles
          Cost estimates
          Improvement guarantee
          Preliminary Title Report
          Verified financial statements
          Other agency approvals
          Such other documents and studies as are determined necessary.

          At such time as the above-stated information has been furnished to the Building Official/Zoning
          Administrator and has been reviewed, a determination shall be made as the designation or
          applicability of the type of approval processes that may or may not be required for the applicant's
          building, use, or occupancy. Such determination by the Building Official/Zoning Administrator
          shall be provided to the applicant, to complete whatever steps are necessary to finish the
          approval process.

          9-2-9. Classification as to Use or Development
          As part of the Initial Application Process, the applicant's use or development shall be classified
          into one of the following classifications and such sub-parts as may be established by the Building
          Official for administrative purposes or as may be found under this Title:
          a. Agricultural
          b. Commercial
          c. Manufacturing
          d. Mobile Home Park
          e. Multi-family



Siempre at South Mountain                                                                    App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                      4
          f. Multiple Dwelling
          g. Planned Unit Development
          h. Recreation Vehicle Park
          i. Single Family Residence
          j. Subdivision

          9-2-10. Types of Approval Processes.
          Upon completion of the initial application process and classification by the Building
          Official/Zoning Administrator and its staff, the applicant would then be directed to one or more
          of the following approval processes which are provided for in this Title;
          a. Permitted Uses.
          The applicant's intended building, use or occupancy may be permitted within the respective zone
          district under this Title and upon determination by the Building Official/Zoning Administrator a
          building, use, or occupancy permit may issue directly upon completion of the initial application
          process if authorized by the Council.


REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the Site
Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from these divisions, if
any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon Associates LLC.,
in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have completed their reviews of the
geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor
Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that the application complies with the 1990 DCMC and recommends that the Planning
Commission review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application based on the
findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include the following
conditions of approval:

          1.        That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning,
                    and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site and the



Siempre at South Mountain                                                                   App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                      5
                    construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
          2.        That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the development
                    of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
          3.        That the site comply with the Siempre Event Center Development Agreement approved
                    January 19, 2021.
          4.        That the property comply with Salt Lake Valley Health Department regulations for noise
                    pollution.

The findings for approval as are follows:

          1.        The proposed development plans meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper
                    1990 City Municipal Code.
          2.        The public services in the area are adequate to support the subject development.


The findings for denial as are follows:

          1.        The proposed development plans do not meet the requirements and provisions of the
                    1990 Draper City Municipal Code.
          2.        The public services in the area are not adequate to support the subject development.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Site Plan for the Siempre at South Mountain,
as requested by Randall Deschamps, representing Siempre LLC, application SPR-994-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Site Plan for the Siempre at South
Mountain, as requested by Randall Deschamps, representing Siempre LLC, application SPR-994-2020,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2021 and
as modified by the findings and conditions below:

          1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan for the Siempre at South Mountain, as
requested by Randall Deschamps, representing Siempre LLC, application SPR-994-2020, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 19, 2021.




Siempre at South Mountain                                                                    App. # SPR-994-2020
Site Plan Request                                       6
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      The applicant will finalize any requirements in the 1990 DCMC; the approved
               Development Agreement, and Draper City Staff.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      Once site plan has been approved, a Land Disturbance Permit is required prior to
               construction activities onsite. Permit is obtained through the Engineering Division and is
               required prior to Building Permit issuance.

       2.      Any work in the public right-of-way will require an Encroachment Permit obtained through
               the Engineering Division.


Building Division Review.

       1.      None.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      None

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of twenty-six
               (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6)
               inches shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
               imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide all weather
               driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28)
               feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be checked prior to building
               permits being issued.

       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary Fire
               Department Access to the site shall be installed and APPROVED by the Fire Department
               prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time during the building phase any
               of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department Access becomes non-compliant any and all
               permits could be revoked.

       3.      No combustible construction shall be allowed prior to hydrant installation and testing by
               water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any combustible elements
               being received or delivered on building site.
4.       Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler shop
         drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us. A
         complete set of plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans
         must be stamped by a NICET level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to
         be a hydrant with-in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking
         Caps. ALL FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO
         BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

5.       Standpipes May Be Required. This building may be required to have standpipes. This
         standpipe will be required to be pressure tested and a Contractor Certificate of
         Completion will be required to be filled out.

6.       Post Indicator Valve with Tamper May Be Required. If there is no designated fire riser
         room with a direct access door from the outside. There shall be either a wall mounted
         P.I.V (OS&Y) or a typical P.I.V placed a minimum distance of 40 feet from the building
         with a tamper switch.

7.       Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to be sent via
         email to the following to: Don Buckley at don.buckley@draper.ut.us . A complete set of
         plans, with manufacturer cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a
         NICET level III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE
         3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE
         DEPARTMENT.

8.       Emergency Responder Radio Coverage Required. Emergency responder radio coverage
         shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.

9.       Emergency Voice/Alarm Communication System May Be Required. An emergency
         voice/alarm communication system shall be provided in accordance with the IFC.

10.      Two-way communication will be Required. As per Section 1009.8 in the 2018 IFC.

11.      Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted to
         exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the exterior access
         to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the top of the box) Lock box
         purchase can be arranged by the General Contractor. See attached information form.

12.      2A-10BC Fire Extinguishers required. The extinguisher needs to be a serviceable type
         meaning metal head and metal neck. Extinguishers need to be located in a conspicuous
         location where they will be readily accessible and immediately available for use. Placed
         every 75 feet of travel. If in cabinet or not the extinguisher or cabinet needs to be
         mounted so that the top is not more than five (5) feet above the floor.

Notes:

         Plan approval or review shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility
         of any person designing, owning, operating or controlling any building. Damages to
         persons or property caused by defects, fire, improper installation, or other emergency
         conditions that occur in or on the building property shall not hold the Draper City Fire
         Department as assuming any liability.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
 EXHIBIT C
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
TOTAL PARKING STALLS PROVIDED = 224




                                                           16




                                                                           M
                                                           18

                                                           19
                                        45
                                                            19
                                                   6   7
                                                                 17
                                   13
                              14
                                             30                       19

                                                  32
                          3
                          2
                          1



                     20
 EXHIBIT F
ELEVATIONS
                                                                      THESE DRAWINGS OR ANY PARTS THEREOF, AS INSTRUMENTS OF SERVICE, REMAIN THE PROPERTY OF THE ARCHITECTS AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR USED ON OTHER WORK WITHOUT THEIR WRITTEN CONSENT
PLOT DATE:6/2/2020 Q:\ACADFile\SOUTH MOUNTAIN RECEPTION CENTER\WORKING\SouthMOUNTREC_A2-02-ELEV.dwg




                                         LEFT ELEVATION
                  SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                               REAR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"




PRELIMINARY SET




                                                                 A NEW BUILDING IN DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WHK




                                                           SOUTH MOUNTAIN RECEPTION CENTER
                                                MAY 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REVISIONS




                                                                                                                                                 3520 N UNIVERSITY AVENUE #200, PROVO UT 84604                  801-377-6303   WWW.HARRIS-ARCHITECTURE.COM
A2.2




                                                              rear and left side elevations
                                                                              THESE DRAWINGS OR ANY PARTS THEREOF, AS INSTRUMENTS OF SERVICE, REMAIN THE PROPERTY OF THE ARCHITECTS AND MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED OR USED ON OTHER WORK WITHOUT THEIR WRITTEN CONSENT
PLOT DATE:6/2/2020 Q:\ACADFile\SOUTH MOUNTAIN RECEPTION CENTER\WORKING\SouthMOUNTREC_A2-02-ELEV.dwg




                                         RIGHT ELEVATION
                  SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                        18'
                                                                                                                                                        -7
                                                                                                                                                     1/4
                                                                                                                                                    "




                                                                                                       30'-6 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                               FRONT ELEVATION




                                                             8'-5 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"




PRELIMINARY SET




                                                                         A NEW BUILDING IN DRAPER, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WHK




                                                            SOUTH MOUNTAIN RECEPTION CENTER
                                                 MAY 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DRAWN BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REVISIONS




                                                                                                                                                             3520 N UNIVERSITY AVENUE #200, PROVO UT 84604                       801-377-6303   WWW.HARRIS-ARCHITECTURE.COM
A2.1




                                                            FRONT AND RIGHT SIDE ELEVATIONS
   EXHIBIT G
LANDSCAPE PLAN
              EXHIBIT H
CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS NORTHEAST FACING
               EXHIBIT I
CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS NORTHWEST FACING
             EXHIBIT J
CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS SOUTH FACING
               EXHIBIT K
CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS SOUTHWEST FACING
   EXHIBIT L
PUBLIC COMMENT
From:                      Jamie <jamiesoucy@gmail.com>
Sent:                      Thursday, January 14, 2021 9:06 AM
To:                        Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                   Noise pollution times

Follow Up Flag:            Follow up
Flag Status:               Flagged

I am one of the neighbors who lives across from the clubhouse. Could you please tell me what the hours
will be for your incredibly inconsiderate noise polluting structure? I honestly do not know how my
children will be able to sleep if we are able to hear someone talking in normal voices from the golf
course and it sounds as if they are next to us, how it will be to having a party with loud voices and music
so many nights. Every summer during the weekends we do outdoor movies and parties and play music
in our backyard for our friends, family and neighborhood which will be difficult to do now and you will
be taking that away from us. How are we able to enjoy a movie without blasting our own speakers to
cover over yours? Do you yourself understand how loud the noise is amplified to such an extreme
because of the layout of the land? How will my children or any of us get any sleep at night? I understand
you don’t care and it isn’t your problem to try to get my children to sleep or being forced to listen to
loud parties night after night and are forced to spend your nights inside to cut down at least a portion of
the noise. I know that money is what you are only concerned with but I am extremely disappointed that
you could not begin to understand the amplification of noise in this area. It isn’t a normal reception
noise It will sound as if the party is in my backyard and in my home. Our home will not be a good place
to find peace or fun in family gatherings or just sitting outside enjoying a summers night and it is gone so
you can make a profit. Please let me know what time will this building will close and people must be
gone. I am devastated and honestly don’t know what my children and I are going to do.

Thank you
Jamie Soucy
From:                     Marv Armstrong <armstrongmarv@gmail.com>
Sent:                     Tuesday, January 12, 2021 12:20 PM
To:                       Travis Van Ekelenburg
Subject:                  Siempre Event Center

Follow Up Flag:           Follow up
Flag Status:              Flagged

Hi Travis,
 I spoke to you yesterday and agreed to send you the email addresses of four families that are
concerned with the Siempre event center.
Could you please send the zoom link to the following:
armstrongmarv@gmail.com
shaggydog66@gmail.com
Shannon_Sandberg@msn.com
jamiesoucy@gmail.com

You asked for discussion concerns.
We met last night and we feel we have not had enough time to discuss our concerns with an attorney.
We are asking for more time so that we can get advice before any meetings are held.

You mentioned that the gazebo was on the west side of the club house when it shows by the Siempre
book to be on the east side. It is only
110 yards from the Armstrong's back yard. There are a projected 110 weddings per year, and due to the
bowl-shaped depression in the natural shape of the land, therefore causing , a sound vacuum that would
magnify the noise level from the wedding facility until well into the late night hours. We can already
hear golfers, with no sound enhancements on the 18th green and parking lot. This alone would make it
next to Impossible for the homeowners backing the outdoor area being proposed, to hold any kind of
peaceful outdoor family activities. That same noise will be compounded by the noise of barking dogs in
the area, along with the noises of other neighborhood activities. Our PEACEFUL neighborhood will be
gone!
Not only are we concerned with the NOISE pollution, but the LIGHTS that will be shining in ALL of our
bedroom and family room windows.
Getting little children to sleep at night will be a nightmare for young families!
The natural environment and natural beauty with be destroyed by this enormous venue with it's 28 foot
gazebo. As neighbors, this is totally unfair to us since every one of us paid an additional $50,000
- $83,000 for our view lots and were told that this gully was part of the master plan for South Mountain.
This land behind us was set apart of the protected wilderness plan and would NEVER be built on. This is
WHY we paid those exorbitant lot premium prices. What will this proposed venue do to our property
values

The area in question is a major migration path of deer and other
wildlife. Where do we expect these animals to live if we destroy
their natural habitat where they bed down?
There will be increased fire danger from wedding sparklers, smoking, possible fireworks etc.
Have there been studies as to why the structure and the Gazebo cannot be built on the west side of the
club house? There is already a restaurant and an outdoor covered patio there. They could be replaced
with no impact on our property values. . Why is this Gazebo necessary when the building should be used
for the weddings not just reception?

You will be destroying a natural water shed.

We have heard there will also be business offices. Is it zoned for that?

We were just notified of this and it seems like more time is needed for further. We feel a Zoom meeting
does not properly let us voice our concern. (though we understand why). We would like to meet face to
face. With the vaccine out we might be able to hold a public meeting in person in the near future.

We have not had time to discuss any of this with an attorney.
