MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
21, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD,
DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Lieutenant Pat Evans; Bret Millburn,
                    Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Laura
                    Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications
                    Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Bob Wylie, Finance Director; Jared
                    Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director; Kellie Challburg, Chief of
                    Staff; Jake Sorensen, IT; Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager;
                    Todd Draper, planner
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Draper Park Inclusive Playground Review – Rhett Ogden

1.1   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, reminded the Council that the
      City had been working on this playground for several months. It had gone
      through multiple designs, the first of which was just an awesome playground
      to the current design that was very inclusive. He met with Salt Lake County
      about the TRACK Grant the week before. The county recommended giving the
      City the $555,000 for the project that was awarded in 2019. This was retracted
      in 2020 because of COVID, but after the meeting last week, they were returning
      the funds to the City.

      He displayed an aerial image of Draper Park and pointed out the two
      playgrounds that would be replaced. Despite Draper Park being the City’s
      busiest park with amenities such as baseball diamonds, a paved trail, an
      indoor pavilion, restrooms and a creek, the playgrounds were 18 years old and
      well worth replacing.

      In designing the new playground they followed the playground design
      standards of eight steps for inclusive play. A big part of inclusive playgrounds


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – September 21, 2021
      was to have mobility devices to get kids off the ground and into the air. He
      said that while inclusive playgrounds often include different textures and
      sounds for kids with cognitive disabilities, they often overlook making the
      equipment accessible for diverse bodies. The accessible ramps included in the
      Draper playground would make over 90% of the playground area accessible
      by a user in a mobility device.

      Mr. Ogden outlined a list of specific equipment that were added to make it a
      neat and accessible playground. These not only make it accessible, but make
      it fun for kids of all abilities to come play.

      The playground was ramped from the entrance up to the second deck of play
      equipment. There was also an area that had three zip lines. The only
      playground with them in Draper was at Steep Mountain Park and they were
      heavily used. These accommodate mobility devices. Monkey bars, slides and
      merry-go-rounds all accommodate mobility devices. It also features a 32’ slide,
      which would be the tallest in the state. He noted that the swing sets were in
      good shape and would stay. He played a video of a rendering of what the
      playground would look like at Draper Park.

      He asked the Council if they had any additional direction for staff going
      forward. If they hoped to have the park opened by late spring of 2022 they
      would need a six-month lead time. In addition to this, some site work and the
      removal of the existing equipment needed to be done.

1.2   Councilmember Green asked what obstacles there were to accomplishing this.

      Mr. Ogden said that the primary obstacles were deadlines. He said that it
      seemed like everywhere in the world, production lines were slow. Mostly they
      needed a good lead time. He said the Council had already funded it and hours
      of work had gone into designing the park. It was ready to go as-is unless the
      Council desired changes.

1.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked what would happen with the volleyball court.
      Mr. Ogden said that it would stay. Councilmember T. Lowery said that it didn’t
      seem to get used very frequently. She asked if there would be a better use of
      the space such as a pickleball court or a different climbing structure. Mr.
      Ogden said that a pickleball court there would get used 20:1 over volleyball.



                                                                          Page 2 of 16
      Councilmember F. Lowry asked how much room was there and if they could
      put in two pickleball courts. Mr. Ogden thought so but did not have the
      measurements in front of him.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said she felt the volleyball courts were a bit of an
      eyesore as they were now. She said that if they were fixing up the playground
      it might be nice to do something about the volleyball court.

1.4   Councilmember F. Lowry said that in watching the video he wondered about
      updating the pavilion. Mr. Ogden said they had looked at that. Some people
      liked the old look as is. Councilmember F. Lowry said that they would want
      the pavilion to complement the new playground. Some of the historical
      elements could be preserved while giving it a new look. Mr. Ogden said staff
      could look at that if the Council was interested in funding a restoration project
      on the pavilion.

1.6   Councilmember T. Lowery asked about those big climbing structures with the
      ropes. These were not the spider webs going into the playground. Mr. Ogden
      clarified that they were standalone. He said that there were not any of those
      types of structures incorporated in the current design. Councilmember T.
      Lowery said that they didn’t have any of those in Draper. Mr. Ogden confirmed
      that was correct. He said that he didn’t include them because it was one
      element that took up a pretty big footprint. They were also not very inclusive.

1.7   Councilmember Vawdrey said to Mr. Ogden that all they needed was money
      to be able to do everything they wanted. Mr. Ogden said that was correct and
      the Council had already funded the playground portion. It was ready to go if
      the Council gave the green light. Councilmember Vawdrey clarified that if they
      were going to change the pavilion it would require additional funds. She did
      not disagree that it could have a facelift, but she knew that it had been built by
      people in the City. Mr. Ogden said they had put a new roof on the pavilion
      four years ago.

1.8   There was more discussion about addressing the volleyball courts by either
      putting in pickleball courts or adding one of the rope climbing structures.

1.9   Councilmember Roberts asked about the number of swings at the park and if
      they would be accessible. Mr. Ogden said that there was a bay of six and then



                                                                             Page 3 of 16
      another bay with either two or four swings: 8-10 swings total. Some were
      regular belt swings and some were toddler seat swings.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that if Mr. Ogden was getting prices for different
      options with the volleyball court that it would be helpful to have estimates on
      the cost to refurbish the pavilion at the same time.

2.0   Council/Manager Reports

2.1   Councilmember Roberts said that the vegetation had not come through at the
      famous sag pond up at SunCrest. He said that it was quite the eyesore with
      the rocks. He said he knew it was not in the minds of engineers to worry about
      beauty, but a lot of people complained about it. He wondered what they could
      do to make it look better. He remembered discussions about putting down
      natural seeds and plants, but had not seen them.

      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said seeds were planted but the
      combination of heat and lack of rain didn’t allow the plants to grow. They were
      trying to find a company to do the landscaping and already had one bid to
      replant and put in temporary irrigation that didn’t have to be buried to get the
      plants started. The seedlings die under the heat if they don’t get enough
      water. In response to a question about the timeline, he said they were trying
      to get it taken care of this year. However, right now things are not moving fast.

2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry thanked City staff who helped with the Arts and
      International Cultural Festival that occurred. He felt it was awesome and
      looked forward to seeing it grow. He also thanked the staff for their support
      with the food truck night. He wanted feedback before meeting with the Special
      Events Meeting the following day.

      Councilmember Roberts said he enjoyed it. He thought the turnout was really
      good and noticed that people hung around for quite a while. He felt there was
      interest and it would benefit from being consistent so people could expect the
      event. He noted some execution problems that needed to be improved but
      overall believed it was a fantastic event.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said her family enjoyed the event, too. She
      seconded Councilmember Roberts’ comment about needing more trucks. She



                                                                            Page 4 of 16
      asked if the food truck owners signed anything that guaranteed them to be at
      the event.

      Councilmember F. Lowry responded not right now, but that was an item to be
      discussed at the Special Events meeting. One idea was to require trucks to pay
      a deposit that would be refundable if they showed up.

      Councilmember Roberts asked about the City giving them $500 bucks to
      guarantee they show up and then rebate the amount based on sales.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that was another option to explore. It was
      frustrating to think that trucks were coming and then not have them show up.
      Another option was to hold the event on a different night. They would
      compete with high school sports and other events on a Friday night. He asked
      Mr. Ogden how much the event strained his staff to get the canopy set up and
      having tables and power available. He did not want to overburden staff.

      Mr. Ogden said that his team got the event set up early in the afternoon on
      Friday. That was not a problem. He knew that they were not able to have staff
      at the event which created some power issues. Going forward he didn’t see it
      as an issue. Now that one event had been done, it would be easy to modify.

      Councilmember F. Lowry talked with Mr. Ogden about the best night to host
      the event in terms of staff resources. He also noted that the hinges on the
      gate near the bleachers had broken off. It was something to be aware of. He
      said it looked like someone tried to push the gate in the wrong direction
      causing the gate to come off its hinges.

2.3   Councilmember T. Lowery had received some requests about Traverse Ridge
      Road and Mike Weir Drive from residents. She asked where they were on
      making a change to improve the road with guardrails or additional lighting.

      Mr. Cooley said the intersection was master-planned for a signal which would
      add lighting and provide turning movements that were protected. Staff was
      analyzing to see if they could move that project up from when the upgrade
      warrants based on traffic volumes to now so they didn’t have to spend a lot of
      money widening the road, as opposed to just adding a signal.




                                                                         Page 5 of 16
      Councilmember T. Lowery asked when they would know the results of the
      present study. Mr. Cooley said it would take a couple of months to get back
      from the consultant. He assured her staff was working on the intersection and
      they anticipated the light would go in.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

3.0   Public Comments

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of August 17, 2021, and September 7, 2021, City Council Meeting
         Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #21-49, a resolution amending Section 7030 -
         Overtime, in the Personnel Policy Manual. Staff: Hazel Dunsmore
      c. Approval of Resolution #21-51, a resolution re-appointing LaRayne Day as
         a member of the Draper Historic Preservation Commission.
      d. Approval of Resolution #21-52, a resolution re-appointing DeLaina Tonks
         as an alternate member to the Draper City Planning Commission.

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                the   Consent    Items.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1499, an ordinance amending Title 9 of Draper City
      Municipal Code in order to amend and enact regulations pertaining to
      exemptions from the title, definitions, administrative and development review
      procedures, second kitchens in single-family dwellings, and accessory dwelling
      units. This application is known as the City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit
      (ADU) Text Amendment. (Legislative Action)

5.1   Todd Draper, City Planner, went over some of the changes made based on
      comments from the previous meeting and the opportunity staff took to stress
      test the ordinance. He reminded that the ordinance was in response to HB 82

                                                                         Page 6 of 16
that required the City to allow internal accessory dwelling units (IADUs) before
October 1st. Changes were included about second kitchens and detached
accessory dwelling units (DADUs), as well as administrative processes and Title
IX exemptions.

In the definitions sections (9-3-040) there were three changes or additions:
dwelling unit, household, and owner of record.

Under the section dealing with ADU permits (9-5-210) the language regarding
the annual renewal of ADU permits was simplified, it was clarified that building
and/or encroachment permits were also required for work done to create an
ADU. Lastly, an additional time frame was added to the expiration section that
states if a building permit was issued, the applicant had to get a certificate of
occupancy within one year of the ADU permit or the ADU permit would expire.

There were some minor updates to the sections dealing with accessory
kitchens in single-family dwellings (9-30-010 & 9-30-020). A second kitchen
cannot function as a second dwelling unit. It emphasizes the requirement that
there is an interior access pathway maintained between a second kitchen and
the main kitchen and other common areas within the single-family dwelling.

In the general regulations of ADUs (9-31-030) there was one additional update
to the last criteria to provide additional reference to the chapter on how ADUs
would be processed, submitted, and reviewed.

Sections 9-31-040 and 9-31-045 both outlined specific development standards
for ADUs. In these sections, the code was adjusted so that it was clear that the
parking had to be paved with concrete or asphalt and that driveways needed
to conform to current ordinances. The other addition was to be clear that
DADUs had to be on the same parcel as the dwelling. For IADUs it was clarified
that the owner of record was responsible for getting the required permits and
not the applicant.

Lastly, staff updated the prohibited area map to include SunCrest.

He reminded the Council that there was a public hearing at the August 12,
2021, Planning Commission meeting when they unanimously forwarded a
positive recommendation and at the previous City Council meeting on



                                                                      Page 7 of 16
      September 7, 2021, at which time they closed the public hearing and continued
      the item to this meeting.

5.2   Councilmember Vawdrey asked for clarification about the timeframe Mr.
      Draper mentioned. Mr. Draper explained that it was regarding the expiration
      of the ADU permit. He said that if someone were to come in to get an ADU
      permit to build or create an ADU, this section of code says that if they get the
      ADU permit the applicant has 180 days to get the building permit and then
      within one year from receiving the building permit it was required that they
      complete the work under the building permit and get a certificate of
      occupancy.

5.3   Councilmember Green asked for the timeline if an owner was not compliant
      with the code. Mr. Draper said that would be addressed in the next
      presentation by Ms. Jastremsky.

5.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Ordinance     #1499.
      Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



6.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-47, a resolution of the Draper City Council
      pertaining to the adoption of a temporary policy for the procedural
      implementation of Accessory Dwelling Unit permits created by changes to Title
      9 of the Draper City Municipal Code through the passage of Draper City
      Ordinance #1499.

6.1   Ms. Jastremsky told the Council that they went over one version of the
      implementation policy at the previous meeting on September 7, 2021. Staff
      heard the Council’s feedback on not liking the longer timeframe. Instead, the
      resolution included in the Council’s packet had a four-month grace window to
      get people to come in and apply for the initial permit and an eight-month
      window where the City will not actively engage in code enforcement or fines
      as it works with them to come into compliance. She had other options for the
      Council to look at if those time frames did not work for them. She said they
      were keeping the same type of format that included an application window
      where staff was just trying to get existing ADUs to apply for permits and then

                                                                           Page 8 of 16
      a grace period where the City would not actively enforce as the ADUs were
      brought into compliance.

6.2   Councilmember Green said he was considering the time frames proposed and
      if they seemed reasonable. He also wondered if they should craft a statutory
      exemption for individuals with leases.

      Councilmember F. Lowry restated how the four-month window to apply for
      the permit and the eight-month grace period would work. Ms. Jastremsky told
      him that was correct. During the grace period the City would work with them
      to get their building permit, make modifications to come into compliance, and,
      if they had a lease, it would give them a few months to let the lease run out
      and then do the work.

      Council Member F. Lowry asked if there was no way for an applicant to become
      compliant. Ms. Jastremsky said that there would not be enforcement during
      the initial four-month window to apply for permits. However, after those four
      months, residents in restricted areas would have to look at removing the unit.
      A person would have eight months from the time they submitted their
      application for a permit. If someone submitted the first month of the
      application window, they would have eight months to come into compliance.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there was anything in the ordinance that
      addressed if someone had an ADU and did not apply for a permit. Ms.
      Jastremsky said that if someone did not come in to apply within the four
      months there was no grace period to come into compliance immediately.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked what would happen if someone did not come
      in to get the permit and was out of compliance with a tenant who had a lease.
      What position did that put the City in relative to the tenant? Mike Barker, City
      Attorney, said that he talked to outside counsel on a variety of issues related
      to tenants. They did not feel there was much legal jeopardy on the behalf of
      the City. It was a private agreement between a landlord and a tenant. The City
      was an independent enforcement body. He was sent a copy of the standard
      residential rental agreement propagated by the Utah Association of Realtors.
      This did have a government action clause that anticipates issues on
      condemnation or other governmental actions that may affect the relationship.




                                                                           Page 9 of 16
Mr. Dobbins said that he would expect significant pushback and non-
compliance. He said that he did not think that people who already knew they
were non-compliant would show up for permits. He said that in many cases
the areas the City knew this was a problem were now the areas that were not
eligible to get an ADU.

Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that folks in non-eligible areas would not be
given the grace period because they were not eligible. This was confirmed.

Councilmember Green asked if people in non-eligible areas would get an
immediate notice, code enforcement would issue a citation, the justice court
would handle the situation, and the City would exercise its civil remedies for
the violation of these codes. Mr. Barker said that there could either be a
criminal or civil track. In response to Councilmember F. Lowry’s question, he
said that one of the advantages was that there was a legal non-conforming
provision in the code. Because of this, it would be in the best interest of
residents to come in and make an application because the City had this
threshold question to ask if it was legal non-conforming, especially if they are
in the purple areas on the map. If they were legal non-conforming they would
be able to stay.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that based on the public comment it seemed as
though there were several non-conforming units that would still be non-
conforming after this. Councilmember Roberts asked what the teeth were
behind this regarding funding and staff. He asked why they would not just do
targeted enforcement and make a real effort to go after certain areas which
have more egregious offenders.

Mr. Dobbins said they had considered that and the Council should have seen
proposals to add staff. He recommended that they do not hire full-time
employees right now and instead look at using someone with a legal
background to help with the enforcement side. He did not know the scope of
the issue yet. He was nervous to add full-time employees without knowing the
scope. He recognized that there were certain areas of the City that had known
problems. He felt they would need to invest some one-time money in the next
6-12 months to address that specific area. After that area was dealt with it
would be a good time to reassess where the City was regarding enforcement.
Because of this, they were looking into hiring legal counsel to review people to



                                                                    Page 10 of 16
determine who was legal non-conforming and the appropriate enforcement
action for those who were just non-conforming.

Councilmember F. Lowry said he just wanted to make sure that the ordinance
included the appropriate wording to protect and help the City deal with those
who were non-conforming. Mr. Barker said that there were these stories that
a loophole existed for spaces that had tenants. He said that he was curious to
see a landlord make that case. He did not see the loophole yet. To Mr.
Dobbins’ point, he had been in contact with a firm that was willing to take on
this subject and look at preliminary issues such as the South Mountain
Agreement and the development standards associated with it, Draper Code,
State Code to make a preliminary statement about that neighborhood. The
money was already in the budget so there were no funds that needed to be
appropriated.

Councilmember Green asked how quickly they could get code enforcement to
start noticing folks and start the enforcement process. Mr. Dobbins said they
could start the process shortly. However, there was a bandwidth issue. If they
notice 12 of these ADUs all at once the City does not have the resources to deal
with enforcement all at the same time. Typically the City did code enforcement
on a complaint basis. They had already received complaints about certain
properties that appear to violate both State and the new City code. If the
Council adopted the resolution tonight, staff would sit down and make a list of
properties they were already aware of, which category it seemed they fell into,
and figure out what it would take to get them through an enforcement
process. Typically code enforcement took one of two routes: the homeowner
says that they were not aware that they were in violation and resolves the issue
fairly quickly, or the homeowner says, “great, take me to court.” If that were
the case, enforcement would be time-consuming.

Councilmember Green clarified that there was no grace period for the illegal,
non-conforming units. As soon as they were identified there was no grace
period. If they were outside of the zoning area then they were illegal by default
and there was no grace period. Ms. Jastremsky said as of today she could not
say if any unit was legal, non-conforming, or illegal. This meant there would
be a research aspect to every single unit that applied.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked after that research occurred and it was
determined that it was non-conforming and could not conform, there would

                                                                     Page 11 of 16
      not be a grace period. Enforcement could happen immediately.                  Ms.
      Jastremsky said that was correct.

      Councilmember Vawdrey returned to the primary question around the
      resolution, the time frames. She said that she felt the four-month application
      window and eight-month grace period was a good fix. It was reasonable and
      better than what was considered at the previous meeting.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the three-month application window
      and the five-month grace period with a total time frame of eight months. He
      asked if that was problematic to reduce the total time frame to eight months
      instead of 12.

      Ms. Jastremsky said staff would make whatever time frames the Council
      wanted work. She said she felt staff favored the longer grace period because
      at times it did take a while to get a building permit and, in the current climate,
      get the materials and contractor out to do the work. The point of the grace
      period was to get voluntary compliance.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if there were comparable cities who had made
      code changes that this could be looked against. Ms. Jastremsky said that every
      City had done something different.

      Councilmember Roberts said he felt the four and eight were reasonable with
      the goal of voluntary compliance.

6.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                     Resolution    #21-47.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

6.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-48, amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule for
      Accessory Dwelling Units and Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer Fees.

7.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said there were a few proposed additions for the
      Council. The first category is related to ADUs. Two fees were proposed. The
      first was a $450 fee for the initial application, followed by a $50 annual renewal
      fee.

                                                                           Page 12 of 16
      The next proposed fee was related to appeals and variance hearing officers. It
      was proposed they remove special exceptions under the variance and add
      under item f a deviation request fee of $50.

7.2   Councilmember Roberts asked how these fees compared to comparable
      permit fees of some of Draper’s neighboring cities. Ms. Jastremsky said that
      like the text that was just reviewed, cities were all over the place in what they
      were doing for fees. The $450 fee was based on a fee study completed by
      Community Development that looked at the City’s fees and the cost of permits.
      This fee was comparable to that for a temporary use permit that had staff-level
      reviews.

      Councilmember Roberts said his only question was if the goal was to get
      voluntary compliance if the $450 fee put too much of a burden on residents to
      voluntarily seek out the permit. Councilmember F. Lowry said that an
      unknown was how much staff time it would take to look into the compliance.
      Mayor Walker said it was a reasonable fee based upon other City fees.

      Councilmember Green asked if the fee was relative to square footage like with
      a building permit. Ms. Jastremsky said they had not looked at what a fee
      relative to square footage would be. The planning fees typically did not orient
      in that direction as building permit fees did. ADUs were typically smaller in
      size so it would be a smaller fee if it was based on square footage.

7.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                    Resolution     #21-48.
      Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

7.4   Councilmember Roberts said he was supportive, but slightly begrudgingly
      because he did not like the fees.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said it was important to cover the cost of staff time.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said in thinking about the fee it was worth
      considering that the applicant would generate revenue off the ADU. There
      were other businesses where you had to apply for licenses and pay fees.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                                                           Page 13 of 16
8.0   Public Hearing: Resolution #21-50, amending the current FY2022 budget.

8.1   Jared Zacharias, Assistant Finance Director, said the document was a little
      longer than usual. Every item in the document had been reviewed by finance
      staff to make sure that funding was available according to policy, that one-time
      expenditures were funded by one-time revenue sources, and ongoing
      expenditures were funded by ongoing revenue sources. They had done a lot
      of work to set these up with the Engineering Department, the Police
      Department, and various City administrator functions to make sure everything
      was correct. Because the Council was aware of most of the proposed budget
      amendments he intended to just give a verbal summary. He reminded that in
      the item numbers, the last two numbers were the number of budget
      amendments that had occurred in FY2022 which began on July 1, 2021. The
      summary based on items was as follows:

      FY22-07 (CIP Carry Over): This served as an administrative function only. The
      Council was not being asked to increase or decrease funds. However, there
      was a bit of a timing issue between the creation of the FY22 budget and some
      of the spendings that occurred.

      FY22-08 (The Police Pay Plan): This was discussed at the September 7, 2021
      meeting. Sales tax revenue had been identified as the funding source for the
      $545,000 required to make it through the end of FY22.

      FY22-09 (Carlquist Roundabout): The scope of the project was expanded
      causing a cost increase of $5,000. The funding would come from the B&C
      Fund.

      FY22-10 (300 East & 12300 South Intersection): This was a combination of
      increased costs and scope. An additional agreement with UDOT provided
      some of the funding on the project to have the intersection function as
      needed.

      FY22-11 (Sidewalk Gap Project): This project would support new sidewalks. It
      amounted to $50,000 from the local highway taxes.

      FY22-12 (Pedestrian Refuge Island on Traverse Ridge/Oak Summit): Additional
      B&C funds of $40,000 were needed due to increases in construction costs.

                                                                          Page 14 of 16
FY22-13 (Draper Elementary Roadway): $100,000 would come from the local
highway tax to make up the difference between the project budget with the
funds already allocated.

FY22-14 (Traffic Signal at Traverse Ridge Road and Mike Weir Drive): $500,000
from the local highway tax to add a traffic signal and make road
improvements.

FY22-15 (Preventative Road Maintenance): This was an annual item to make
sure that there were continued updates and plans on what roads would
receive maintenance. The $1.3 million requested by the Engineering
Department reflected the revenue coming in from FY22 for FY23 road
maintenance projects.

FY22-16 (150 E and Bangerter North Leg Widening): This project would alleviate
a choke point to increase traffic flow at a cost of $500,000. $100,000 of that
was for a stormwater component.

FY22-17 (Golden Pheasant Drive and Pheasant Haven Court Drainage): When
drainage is involved the largest portion of funding comes from the Storm
Water Fund Balance. $125,000 of the $150,000 needed for this project would
come from that fund.

FY22-18 (Vestry Road Cul-de-sac Island Modification): This was a location
where school buses and larger vehicles had a difficult time turning around.
$60,000 from the local highway option tax was going towards widening the
area.

FY22-19 (South Fork Drive Reconstruction): Staff requested funding to
reconstruct the pavement. B&C Funds in the amount of $500,000 would be
used.

FY22-20 (Minuteman Drive Pavement Rehabilitation): The $1.3 million to
rehabilitate the pavement on Minuteman Drive from Highland Drive to 13800
South would come from B&C Funds.




                                                                  Page 15 of 16
      FY22-21 (Storm Water Management Improvements): Staff requested that the
      City reconstruct three stormwater systems in the Highland City area. The
      $500,000 would come from the Storm Water Fund Balance.

8.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the money they had talked about
      earmarking for beautification projects. Mr. Dobbins said that they were going
      to come back at one of the next budget openings, but to have a plan first. The
      staff was still working on the plan.

8.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so         Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

8.4   Councilmember Green moved to approve Resolution #21-50, amending the
      current FY2022 budget. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

8.    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.            Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

9.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:43 p.m.




                                                                        Page 16 of 16
