Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: July 22, 2021
Re: Lone Peak Parkway Office Site Plan and Plat Amendment Requests Comments: This application is a request for approval of site plan and plat amendment applications for approximately 1.1 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 134 W. 13100 South.  The property is currently zoned DC .  The applicant is requesting that a site plan be approved to allow for the development of a new office building and a plat amendment to combine parcels and relocate the public utility easement.  The site is currently undeveloped. The findings are as follows: Site Plan  findings for approval:
1.   The entire site has been developed as a phased development.
2.   The site plan conforms to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.   The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
4.   The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.   The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
Deviation Request findings for approval:
1.   The site requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking; or
2.   The site would requires a deviation from strict compliance to reduce parking in order to implement such landscaping; and
3.   Constraints of the site would necessitate the elimination of required parking spaces or reduction of site boundary landscaping buffers in order to facilitate such landscaping.
Deviation Request finding for denial:
1.   The applicant has not demonstrated to the Planning Commission that they comply with the deviation the standards set in the DCMC Section 9-25-080(H)(2)(a).
Subdivision Plat Amendment f inding for approval:
1.  There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and no Public Street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 7/15/2021 Backup Material