Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: February 16, 2021
Re: City Initiated Queuing Definition and Bulk Text Amendment Request Comments: This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending regulations pertaining to parking spaces for queuing, site plan reviews, zone purposes of commercial zones, update references to fire code standards and street names, general development and design standards, gating of private streets, and general requirements for lots within subdivisions.
This item is scheduled for the February 11, 2021 Planning Commission meeting and an update of that meeting will be presented to the City Council at the February 16, 2021 meeting. The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1479 2/11/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 2/9/2021 Cover Memo