                MUNICIPAL BUILDING AUTHORITY AGENDA
                March 16, 2021 at 7:00 PM
                1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020
                Council Chambers

1.   Call to Order

2.   This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to
     Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
     I, Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic
     meeting of the Draper City Municipal Building Authority with an
     anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety
     of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby
     authorize the Draper City Municipal Building Authority to conduct
     electronic meetings without an anchor location.
     The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
         Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City
         Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global
         pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
         While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper show
         an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are becoming
         available to a larger segment of the Draper population,
         vigilance is required so that there isn’t a rebound in cases and
         hospitalizations.
         It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of
         attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding
         social distancing in order to comply with state and local
         health departments health orders.
         COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the
         health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
         The City has the technological capability to provide means by
         which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open
         portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.

     To participate, please see the options below:
        Listen through the Draper City Website –
        https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
        Email comments to public.comment@draperutah.gov. These will
        become part of the public record.
        Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request for
        the Zoom meeting ID including your name, address, and phone
        number which you will be calling from to
        public.comment@draperutah.gov.
3.   Motion: Approval of June 16, 2020, Municipal Building
     Authority Meeting minutes
4.       Public Hearing: Resolution MBA #21-01
         Approval of Resolution MBA #21-01 amending the current FY2021
         budget. Staff report by Jared Zacharias
5.       Adjourn to a Redevelopment Agency of Draper City
         Meeting
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were
posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website
www.draperutah.gov, the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn,
and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: March 12, 2021
                                         Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                                         Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing
special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson,
City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24
hours prior to the meeting.
