                                          ORDINANCE NO. 1474

         AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE
         AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
         RELATING TO FENCING AND LAND USE BUFFERS.

        WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of property by
zoning districts; and

        WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City Municipal
Code to address provisions that become diminished in appropriateness, applicability, or clarity; and

         WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code has been
established to provide regulations concerning general developments within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Land Use and Development Code to
guide development within the City Boundaries; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions
of the Land Use and Development Code regarding fencing and Land Use Buffers; and

        WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code Annotated
and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning Commission and City Council to
receive public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing to receive
public input regarding the revision of the Land Use and Development Code.

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.        Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following findings that
the proposed text amendment regarding the Land Use and Development Code in regards to the Land Use
Buffer Text Amendment: 1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
the city's general plan. 2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning
ordinance. 3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is
sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance. 4. The proposed amendment will not
create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan. 5. The potential effects of
the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health,
safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit. 6. The proposed text amendment
implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

       Section 2.      Revision. The Land Use and Development Code of the Draper City Municipal
Code are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

         Section 3.       Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        Section 4.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of final passage.

Ordinance No. 1474                                     1                                          Land Use Buffer
                                                                                                 Text Amendment
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, ON THE ___________DAY OF___________, 2021.

                                         DRAPER CITY


                                         _____________________________
                                         Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder


 VOTE TAKEN:                              YES                NO

 Councilmember Green

 Councilmember T. Lowery

 Councilmember F. Lowry

 Councilmember Roberts

 Councilmember Vawdrey

 Mayor Walker




Ordinance No. 1474                   2                              Land Use Buffer
                                                                   Text Amendment
                                        EXHIBIT A



9-23-110: LAND USE BUFFERS:
Land use buffers are shall be provided along the side and rear property lines of
commercial, multifamily, and industrial properties intended to enhance community
appearance and welfare by protecting residents and visitors from the traffic, noise,
glare, trash, activity, vibration, odor, visual disorder and other adverse or harmful affects
effects typically associated with some such land uses.
  A. Land Use Buffer Requirements: The amount of landscaping and type of
fencing required for a land use buffer shall be as follows:
     1. A landscape buffer of twenty feet (20') shall be provided between all commercial
and office uses when located adjacent to a residential zone and when a multi-family use
is located adjacent to a single-family zone.
   2. A landscape buffer of thirty feet (30') shall be provided between industrial uses
and residential uses or zones.
    3. Trees within the buffer area described in 9-23-110(A)(1) and (2) above shall be
planted at one tree per four hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.
      a. Trees may be grouped.
       b. Each adjacent residential property shall have at At least one
adjacent buffer tree shall be planted between commercial, office, multi-family and
industrial uses and each single-family residential lot. Trees shall be arranged to provide
linear coverage between commercial, office and industrial uses and adjacent residential
units.
    4. The rest of the buffer area shall consist of ground covers, shrubs and planting
beds, wherein a maximum of seventy five percent (75%) of the buffer area may be
planted with ground covers.
    5. A six foot (6') high tall, solid, sight obscuring fence constructed of masonry,
precast concrete, or lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete, or lightweight steel
reinforced polyethylene plastic wall shall be used between abutting commercial,
industrial, or office land uses and residential zones. Except for required footings or
foundations, the fence shall extend from the adjacent finish grade of the property
upward to the required height. Any gaps between the bottom of the fence panel and the
adjacent finish grade of the property may not exceed four inches (4”). Such gaps are not
counted towards the total required height of the fence. The height of fences shall be
reduced in clear view triangle areas or where they may impact sight visibility with a
driveway as specified in 9-27-080.
  B. Exemptions: No land use buffer shall be required between land uses located in
the same zone.
  C. Reductions:
   1. The zoning administrator or designee may reduce land use buffer requirements
based on the character of specific uses, building orientations, topographic features, or
other unique characteristics of adjoining uses. A reduced buffer shall consist of a
minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer and an eight foot (8') tall, masonry, precast
concrete, lightweight precast fiber reinforced concrete, or lightweight steel reinforced
polyethylene plastic wall solid, sight obscuring fence in compliance with all other
specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5).
    2. The planning commission may approve additional deviations to
landscape buffer requirements if all of the following criteria are met:
     a. Physical site features preclude strict compliance. In this case an alternative
landscaping scheme shall be provided which meets or exceeds the intent of the code.;
      b. Additional landscaping shall be added to the overall site to compensate for any
approved reduction in buffer area widths, up to the amount of trees required for the
original buffer width.;
       c. An eight foot (8') tall, wall solid, sight obscuring fence or a hedgerow of at least
five feet (5') tall at maturity has been provided. If a fence is utilized it shall be in
compliance with all other specifications of 9-23-110(A)(5); and
      d. In no case shall a landscape buffer be less than five feet (5') in width.
  D. Relationship To Other Requirements: When the requirements of a land
use buffer exceed those of other requirements along a property line, the land
use buffer requirements shall apply.
  E. Existing Buffer Vegetation And Trees: Retention of appropriate existing plant
material is strongly encouraged in land use buffers. Approved eExisting trees and
natural vegetative ground covers should be retained where possible by avoiding
scraping, grading, sodding and other construction activity within the land
use buffer. Where land use buffer standards call for additional trees or shrubs to be
installed in an existing natural landscaped area, it should be done in a manner which
minimizes disturbance to existing plants. In determining whether existing trees and
vegetation qualify as satisfying a land use buffer standards, the planning commission
shall consider all of the following factors:
    1. The type and quality of the vegetation being preserved;
    2. The effectiveness of the visual screening that will be provided;
   3. The extent to which the proposed buffer makes use of existing topography and
vegetation; and
    4. The ability and availability to relocateion to the land use buffer area of healthy
native and existing, healthy, non-invasive, drought tolerant natural vegetation which that
would otherwise be removed from areas of the site to be developed to a land use buffer.
 F. Berms: The use of well designed berms is preferred rather than fences and walls
when possible, and when walls or fences are not otherwise required. Berms may be
required in land use buffer designs and should be designed to integrate with the natural
topography of the site.
  GF. Compatibility Of Plantings: Supplemental buffer plantings shall be compatible
with any existing vegetation within the buffer area.
   HG. Development Within Land Use Buffers: Land use buffers may contain
nonmotorized trails. In no event shall structures or uses, such as, but not limited to, play
fields, stables, swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts, parking lots and vehicular
use areas, equipment storage and other open storage, or buildings be permitted within
land use buffers.


9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:
…
FENCE: A structure serving as an enclosure, barrier, or boundary, which defines an
outdoor space. A sight obscuring fence is one which permits vision through not more
than ten percent (10%) of each square foot more than eight four inches (84") above the
ground.
…
