                                  Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                            January 5, 2021

To:                Draper City Planning Commission
                   Business Date: January 14, 2021

From:              Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draper.ut.us

Re:      Siempre Event Center– Development Agreement Request
         Application No.:  DA-1106-2020
         Applicant:        Paxton Guymon, representing Siempre LLC
         Project Location: 1283 E Mike Weir Dr.
         Current Zoning:   C2 (Neighborhood Commercial District) Zone and RM (Multiple Dwelling
                           Unit Residential) Zone
         Acreage:          2.13 Acres (Approximately 97,783 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Development Agreement to modify the number of
                           parking spaces required for an event center development at the South
                           Mountain Golf Course and to allow for a portion of the parking spaces to
                           constructed of geo-grass pavers.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Development Agreement (Agreement) for approximately
2.13 acres located on the north side of Mike Weir Dr., at approximately 1283 E Mike Weir Dr. (Exhibit
B). The property is currently zoned C2 and RM. The applicant is requesting that an Agreement be
approved to allow for:
             1. A reduction in the number of spaces required in the 1990 Draper City Municipal Code
                 (DCMC); and
             2. Twenty (20) of the proposed parking spaces to be constructed of geo-grass pavers to
                 accommodate over-flow parking for the site.

The applicant has submitted an application for Site Plan approval separate from this Development
Agreement for an event center. As part of the review for the site plan, parking requirements have been a
concern considering that the event center would share parking with the golf course. Specifically if the
golf course and the event center are operating at maximum capacity would there be any parking impact to
Mike Weir Dr. and the surrounding neighborhoods.

The property is located in the South Mountain Agreement area, and is subject to the code that was in
place when the agreement was approved. It has been reviewed against the 1990 DCMC. The 1990 DCMC
does not allow for deviations to required parking however it does allow for shared parking. The applicant
has requested an Agreement in order to modify the parking requirements.



Siempre Event Center                                                                    App. # DA-1106-2020
Development Agreement Request                        1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the C2 and RM zoning classifications (Exhibit C). According to the 1990
DCMC Section 9-5-030, the purpose of the C2 zone is to “provide areas, in appropriate locations where
convenience buying outlets may be established to serve surrounding residential neighborhoods. The
regulations of this district are designated to promote a combination of retail and service facilities which,
in character and scale, are necessary to meet day-to-day needs of area residents.”

According to the 1990 DCMC Section 9-4-030, the purpose of the RM zoning classification is “To
Provide areas for low-to-medium residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles and
character, providing for maximum density of up to twelve (12) units per acre for medium to high density
residential unit projects subject to conditional-use permit procedures and conditions for this type of use
and based on minimum development guidelines adopted by the city.”

The property is surrounded by the OS (Open Space) zoning designation on the north and west. The RM
zoning designation is located to the east and south. The property is part of the Salt Lake County Golf
Course with residential development to the east, west and south.




Siempre Event Center                                                                        App. # DA-1106-2020
Development Agreement Request                        2
Development Agreement. The applicant is requesting an Agreement to accommodate 224 parking stalls,
of which 197 stalls are already on site used by the golf course. The developer will add an additional 7
stalls to be asphalted at the site. Additionally, 20 stalls will be provided for over-flow parking. These
stalls will not be paved but will be geo-grass pavers that are engineered to act as a solid surface for
vehicles to park on. These pavers will be located to the south west of the existing parking lot and will be
maintained by the event center. The 1990 DCMC does not allow for parking spaces which are not paved
with concrete or asphalt. All site improvements are proposed within the C2 zoned area of the property.

Parking Study.
As part of the review for the previously mentioned site plan application, the applicant was required to
submit a parking study to assess the impact of the proposed new use (Exhibit F). Staff has reviewed the
parking study and the data below highlights the numbers stated in the study, 1990 DCMC, current code,
and shared parking numbers. The 1990 DCMC parking numbers are the requirements for any
development in the South Mountain area since any new development in the South Mountain Development
Agreement area is measured against the 1990 DCMC. The study had to look at the current uses on the
property as a golf course/club house, and the proposed use “the event center” as another use due to the
parking lot being shared by both.

1990 DCMC and South Mountain Design Guidelines:
   Reception Center:      110 sp (384 seats max) (used parking 20-Assembly hall/Meeting Rooms)
   Golf Course Clubhouse: 180 sp (6,000 sq ft) (3 sp per 100 sq ft) (used parking 15- restaurants,
                          taverns or private non-profit clubs)
   Restaurant:            33 sp (used Guidelines: 12 sp per1,000 sq ft for a 2750 sq ft restaurant)
                          Total stalls needed 323 sp

Shared Parking Configuration (based on required 1990 parking numbers and expected use of site):
                            Total stalls required: 281 sp
                            (Breakdown numbers per parking study (with day time events))

Current code requirements
   Golf Course:                  90 sp (5 per hole plus restaurant- 18 hole golf course with restaurant
                                 services provided at reception center)
    Reception Center:            62.5 sp (4 spaces per 1k sf gross building floor area- total building area is
                                 15,625 sq ft)
                                 Total stalls required: 153 sp

Proposed Parking outlined in the Development Agreement:
   Existing stalls: 197 sp
   New paved stalls: 7 sp
   New Geo-grass pavers stalls: 20 sp
   Total stalls provided: 224 sp



Criteria For Approval. 1990 DCMC does not contain criteria for review and potential approval of a
Development Agreement.




Siempre Event Center                                                                        App. # DA-1106-2020
Development Agreement Request                        3
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of the
Development Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public Works
Divisions have completed their reviews of the Development Agreement submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Development
Agreement submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Development
Agreement submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State Codes.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request and make a decision based on the
findings listed below for approval or denial.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans outlined in the Agreement meets the intent, goals, and
                   objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
         2.        The Parking Study adequately demonstrates that sufficient parking will be provided.


The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.        The proposed development plans outlined in the Agreement do not meet the intent, goals,
                   and objectives of the Draper City General Plan.
         2.        The Parking Study does not adequately demonstrate that sufficient parking will be
                   provided.


MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Development Agreement, as requested by Paxton Guymon, representing Siempre LLC, for Siempre
Event Center Development Agreement, application DA-1106-2020 based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 5, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Paxton Guymon, representing Siempre LLC,
for Siempre Event Center Development Agreement, application DA-1106-2020, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated January 5, 2021 and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:



Siempre Event Center                                                                      App. # DA-1106-2020
Development Agreement Request                         4
         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City Council for
the Development Agreement, as requested by Paxton Guymon, representing Siempre LLC, for Siempre
Event Center Development Agreement, application DA-1106-2020, based on the findings listed in the
Staff Report dated January 5, 2021.




Siempre Event Center                                                                 App. # DA-1106-2020
Development Agreement Request                       5
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                   DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.


Planning Division Review.

       1.      Planning has reviewed the parking study and has found that the parking will be sufficient
               for the proposed use.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      The Draper City Fire Department has reviewed the proposed Development Agreement
               and has no issues of the use of grass pavers in the basis they have been requested to be
               used.

Legal Division Review.

       1.      The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City ordinances.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
 EXHIBIT C
ZONING MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
       EXHIBIT E
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                         DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                   FOR
                          SIEMPRE EVENT CENTER



                               January ___, 2021




Draper City Contract #                             Page 1 of 30
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Paxton Guymon
York Howell & Guymon
10610 South Jordan Gateway #200
South Jordan, Utah 84095


                                 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                           FOR
                                  SIEMPRE EVENT CENTER

          THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this “MDA”) is made and entered into as of the

___ day of January, 2021, by and between Draper City, a Utah municipality and Siempre, LLC, a

Utah limited liability company.

                                             RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section 1.2,

below.

          B. Developer has the right to develop the Property and construct a new event center thereon

under the Ground Lease (defined below) with Salt Lake County.

          C. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and economic benefits to the City and its residents by, among other

things providing certain improvements to the South Mountain Golf Course facilities, allowing for the

construction of a new event center that may be used by Salt Lake County, golf course patrons, and

members of the public who desire to use the event center for events.

          D. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of the

Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and responsibilities of the

City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements of this MDA.

          E. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2018) et seq.
Draper City Contract #                                                                         Page 2 of 30
          F. The Property already has the appropriate zoning for the intended use. The property is

located within the C2 and RM zone and is subject to the South Mountain Agreement.

          G. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and other

good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the

City and Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                   TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and Exhibits “A” - “E” are hereby incorporated

          into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

                1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §

                10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

                1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator of

                this MDA.

                1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

                1.2.4. City means Draper City, a Utah municipality.

                1.2.5. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

                various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

                certain aspects of the development of the Project.

                1.2.6. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

                which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development


Draper City Contract #                                                                            Page 3 of 30
                Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

                applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this MDA.

                1.2.7. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures of

                the City in effect as of the date of this MDA, a digital copy of which is attached as

                Exhibit “B.”

                1.2.8. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

                1.2.9. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

                1.2.10. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

                City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

                comments or “redlines” by City staff.

                1.2.11. Developer means Siempre, LLC, and its assignees or transferees as permitted by

                this MDA.

                1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to an

                approved Development Application.

                1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development of a

                portion of the Project or any other permit, certificate or other authorization from the City

                required for development of the Project.

                1.2.14. Event Center means the new Event Center to be constructed on the Property in

                accordance with the Ground Lease (with Salt Lake County) and the building permit to be

                issued by Draper City.

                1.2.15. Ground Lease means the 45-year Ground Lease for the South Mountain Golf

                Course Event Center dated March 5, 2020, as amended, between Salt Lake County (as

                “Landlord”) and Siempre, LLC/Developer (as “Tenant”). A copy of the Ground Lease,

                with amendments, is attached hereto as Exhibit “E.”
Draper City Contract #                                                                             Page 4 of 30
                1.2.16. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its Exhibits.

                1.2.17. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either required

                or permitted to be given to another party.

                1.2.18. Outsourc[e][ing] means the process of the City contracting with City

                Consultants or paying overtime to City employees to provide technical support in the

                review and approval of the various aspects of a Development Application as is more

                fully set out in this MDA.

                1.2.19. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Developer or the City; in the plural

                Developer and the City.

                1.2.20. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

                1.2.21. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property pursuant

                to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the other aspects

                approved as part of this MDA.

                1.2.22. Property means the real property owned by Salt Lake County, but leased to

                Developer for construction of the Project, as more fully described in Exhibit "A."

                1.2.23. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

                adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of the

                City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Laws and this MDA. Development of the Project shall be in

          accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent that these are

          applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), and this MDA.

          2.2. Limitation and No Guarantee. Developer acknowledges that each Development

          Application must comply with the City’s Vested Laws including, without limitation, the
Draper City Contract #                                                                               Page 5 of 30
          City’s geologic hazards requirements.

          2.3. Parking Stalls. The City has reviewed, and agrees with, the parking study submitted

          by Developer (from Horrocks Engineers) stating that 193 parking stalls are needed for the

          Event Center and golf course. A copy of the Horrocks Parking Study is attached hereto as

          Exhibit “D.” The golf course already has 197 existing parking stalls. In an effort to ensure

          ample parking during peak demand the Developer is seeking to install an additional 27

          parking stalls (for a total of 224 parking stalls) as a buffer. The 1990 Draper City Municipal

          Code does not allow for parking spaces that are not paved with asphalt or cement. Twenty

          (20) of the additional stalls will not have an asphalt surface. Instead, the surface for the 20

          additional parking stalls will be graded and improved with geo-grass pavers or similar

          materials (see information online at: https://www.geosolutionsinc.com/products/porous-

          pavement-boddington-grass.html). Developer will also provide seven (7) additional

          asphalted parking stalls. The layout of the parking (224 spaces) is shown in the parking map

          in Exhibit “C” hereto. Under the contracts with Salt Lake County, Developer is responsible

          to maintain all parking surfaces and parking landscape areas. The geo-grass parking area

          will be maintained by Developer as well.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of this MDA,

          the City’s Vested Laws, and the Zoning except as specifically provided herein. The Parties

          specifically intend that this MDA grant to Developer “vested rights” as that term is

          construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the
Draper City Contract #                                                                            Page 6 of 30
          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

                3.2.1. Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Developer agrees in writing to the

                application thereof to the Project;

                3.2.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally applicable

                to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State and Federal

                laws and regulations affecting the Project;

                3.2.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

                building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, or similar

                construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the APWA

                Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or

                similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide recognized

                construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments and are required

                to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or welfare;

                3.2.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

                imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons and

                entities similarly situated;

                3.2.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

                Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

                portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

                adopted pursuant to State law;

                3.2.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

                and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution, Utah

                Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code Ann.

                Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;
Draper City Contract #                                                                              Page 7 of 30
                3.2.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning principles

                and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks or similar

                items so long as such changes are generally applicable across the entire City and do not

                materially and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

                3.2.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

                land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a compelling,

                countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be the date it is approved by the

City and signed by both parties. This MDA shall expire on the same date as the Ground Lease.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Outsourcing of Processing of Development Applications. Within twenty-one (21)

          calendar days after receipt of a Development Application and upon the request of Applicant

          the City and Applicant will confer to determine whether the City desires to Outsource the

          review of any aspect of the Development Application to ensure that it is processed on a

          timely basis. If the City determines that Outsourcing is necessary to ensure the timely

          processing of the Development Application then the City shall promptly estimate the

          reasonably anticipated differential cost of Outsourcing in good faith consultation with the

          Applicant (either overtime to City employees or the hiring of a City Consultant). If

          Applicant notifies the City that it desires to proceed with the Outsourcing based on the

          City’s estimate of costs then Applicant shall deposit in advance with the City the estimated

          differential cost and the City shall then promptly proceed with having the work Outsourced.

          Upon completion of the Outsourcing services and the provision by the City of an invoice

          (with such reasonable supporting documentation as may be requested by Applicant) for the

          actual differential cost (whether by way of paying a City Consultant or paying overtime to
Draper City Contract #                                                                            Page 8 of 30
          City employees) of Outsourcing, Applicant shall, within thirty (30) calendar days pay or

          receive credit (as the case may be) for any difference between the estimated differential cost

          deposited for the Outsourcing and the actual cost differential.

          5.2. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State of

          Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped signifying

          that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable regulatory

          standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines, comments or

          suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application unless any

          changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be addressed.

          5.3. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City needs

          technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts as

          part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City Consultants

          with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant. The City

          Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by this MDA shall be

          selected from a list generated by the City for each such City review pursuant to a “request

          for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by City ordinances or regulations. Applicant

          may, in its sole discretion, strike from the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed

          consultants so long as at least three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The

          anticipated cost and timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The

          actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.
Draper City Contract #                                                                           Page 9 of 30
          5.4. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the Development

          Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s Vested Laws (or,

          if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.5. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.6. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.7. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

                5.7.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

                Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and Confer”

                shall be mediated and include the following:

                                  (i)     the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines and

                                  stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                  (ii)     right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering or

                                  vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                  (iii)    interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                  necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their intended

                                  purpose of the Development Standards, and
Draper City Contract #                                                                             Page 10 of 30
                                   (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

                5.7.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a disagreement

                subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

                appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute. If

                the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable mediator they shall

                each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own representative. These two

                representatives shall, between them, choose the single mediator. Applicant and the City

                shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each Party paying 50% of the fees. The

                chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar days, review the positions of the

                parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly attempt to mediate the issue between

                the parties. If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the mediator shall notify the

                parties in writing of the resolution that the mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's

                opinion shall not be binding on the parties.

          5.8. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

                5.8.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

                through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

                appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute. If

                the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each, within

                fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual appropriate

                expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single arbitrator. Applicant

                and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each Party paying 50% of the

                fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar days, review the positions

                of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a decision. The arbitrator shall

Draper City Contract #                                                                             Page 11 of 30
                ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for consideration and objection by the

                other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and consideration of such objections, the

                arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon both parties. If the arbitrator

                determines as a part of the decision that the City’s or Applicant’s position was not only

                incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably and not in good faith then the arbitrator

                may order the City or Applicant to pay the arbitrator’s fees.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this MDA,

Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all or part of the

Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development Application so long

as Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Developer. Developer shall have the right and the obligation to

          construct or cause to be constructed and installed all public infrastructure reasonably and

          lawfully required as a condition of approval of the Development Application pursuant to the

          City’s Vested Laws.

          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or private

          Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form acceptable to the

          City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such required security

          shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Developer.

          8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Developer to “upsize” any future Public

          Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to service the

          Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Developer are made to
Draper City Contract #                                                                              Page 12 of 30
          compensate Developer for the incremental or additive costs of such upsizing. For example,

          if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by 10% but adds 50% more capacity, the

          City shall only be responsible to compensate Developer for the 10% cost increase. An

          acceptable financial arrangement for upsizing of improvements means reimbursement

          agreements, payback agreements, and impact fee credits and reimbursements.

     9. Default.

          9.1. Notice. If Developer or the City fails to perform their respective obligations hereunder

          or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a Default has occurred shall

          provide Notice to the other Party.

          9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

                9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

                9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any applicable

                law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in Default;

                9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

                9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method and

                time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar days

                duration.

          9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of Default

          the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes specified in

          Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as provided in Section

          5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or by

          “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have the

          following remedies, except as specifically limited in 9.9:
Draper City Contract #                                                                             Page 13 of 30
                9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity, including,

                but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

                9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection with

                the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

                9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals, licenses,

                building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the case of a

                default by Developer until the Default has been cured.

          9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 9.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council finds

          on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest of the

          City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a compelling,

          countervailing interest of the City, then the City may impose the remedies of Section 9.4

          without the requirements of Sections 9.5. The City shall give Notice to Developer of any

          public meeting at which an emergency default is to be considered and Developer shall be

          allowed to address the City Council at the meeting regarding the emergency Default.

          9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not be

          deemed a default of Developer.

          9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a result
Draper City Contract #                                                                           Page 14 of 30
          of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole remedy

          available to Developer shall be that of specific performance.

     10. Notices. All notices under this MDA shall, in addition to any other means of transmission,

be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following address:

     To the Developer:
     Siempre, LLC
     Attn: Golden Holt, Manager
     730 South Sleepy Ridge Drive
     Orem, Utah 84058
     Email: goldenholt@gmail.com

     With a Copy to:
     Paxton Guymon
     York Howell & Guymon
     10610 South Jordan Gateway #200
     South Jordan, Utah 84095
     Email: paxton@yorkhowell.com

     To the City:
     Draper City
     Attn: City Manager
     David Dobbins
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     David.dobbins@draper.ut.us
     (801) 576-6500

     With a Copy to:
     Draper City
     Attn: City Attorney
     Mike Barker
     1020 East Pioneer Road
     Draper, UT 84020
     Mike.barker@draper.ut.us

          10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice shall

          be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

                10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service, or

                by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

Draper City Contract #                                                                            Page 15 of 30
                delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation of

                transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then notice

                shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

                10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

                provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

                personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

                electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day,

                then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery

                occurs.

                10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid, by

                First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to the

                United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA by

                giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this Section.

     11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended to

be substantive provisions or evidence of intent.

     12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Developer. Further, the parties

do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties acknowledge that

this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in, responsibility for or

duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or unless the City has

accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and responsibilities—except

for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as allowed by state law—for the

dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.


Draper City Contract #                                                                             Page 16 of 30
     13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Developer under this MDA may be

assigned in whole or in part by Developer with the consent of the City as provided herein.

          13.1. Related Entity. Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to any entity

          “related” to Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal Revenue Service in Section

          165), Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the development of the Project or

          Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as security for financing shall not be

          deemed to be an “assignment” requiring approval from the City. Developer shall give the

          City Notice of any such event specified in this sub-section 13.1 within fifteen (15) calendar

          days after the event has occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all

          necessary contact information for the newly responsible party.

          13.2. Notice. For all other proposed assignments of Developer’s rights and responsibilities

          under this MDA, Developer must obtain the City’s prior approval. Developer shall give

          Notice to the City of any such proposed assignment and provide such information regarding

          the proposed assignee that the City may reasonably request in making the evaluation

          permitted under this Section. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all

          necessary contact information for the proposed assignee.

          13.3. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          13.4. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Developer’s

          rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the performance of each

          of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee succeeds. Upon any such

          approved partial assignment Developer shall not be released from any future obligations as

          to those obligations which are assigned but shall remain responsible for the performance of
Draper City Contract #                                                                           Page 17 of 30
          any obligations herein.

          13.5. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably satisfied

          of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Developer proposed to be

          assigned or there is an existing breach of a development obligation owed to the City by the

          assignee or related entity that has not either been cured or in the process of being cured in a

          manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the City to accept an assignment shall be

          subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes specified in Sections 5.5 and

          5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall

          follow such processes.

          13.6. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by the

          assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of

          the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the provisions of Section 2.

     14. Binding Effect. This MDA is binding on the parties hereto and their successors and

assigns.

     15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be deemed

a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some future date

any such right or any other right it may have.

     16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to

be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed amended

to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this MDA shall

remain in full force and affect.

     17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions, regulations
Draper City Contract #                                                                            Page 18 of 30
or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil commotions, fires or

other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party obligated to perform

hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a period equal to the duration

of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to cooperate in

the implementation of this MDA, the City and Developer each shall designate and appoint a

representative to act as a liaison between the City and its departments and Developer. The initial

representative for the City shall be the City Manager. The initial representatives for Developer shall

be Golden Holt, Randy Deschamps, and Paxton Guymon. The Parties may change their designated

representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all reasonable times to discuss

and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the development of the Project.

     20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice of

law rules.

     21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a subsequent

written amendment signed by all Parties.

     23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which Party

drafted any particular portion of this MDA.
Draper City Contract #                                                                       Page 19 of 30
     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land. The data disk of the City’s

Vested Laws, Exhibit “B,” shall not be recorded in the chain of title. A secure copy of Exhibit “B”

shall be filed with the City Recorder and each party shall also have an identical copy.

     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Resolution No.

___ adopted by the City on _______________, 2021.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

DEVELOPER:                                        CITY:
Siempre, LLC                                      Draper City


___________________________                       ____________________________
By: Golden Holt                                   By: _________________________
Its: Manager                                      Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                                Date: ____________


Approved as to form and legality:                 Attest:


__________________                                __________________
City Attorney                                     City Recorder




Draper City Contract #                                                                        Page 20 of 30
CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                 )
                                  :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the __ day of ___________, 2021, personally appeared before me __________________who
being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Draper City, a political subdivision
of the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its
City Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.


                                     __________________________________
                                     NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

         On the ___ day of ______________, 2021, personally appeared before me Golden Holt,
who being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of Siempre, LLC, a Utah limited
liability company, and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a
lawful meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.


                                                    ______________________________
                                                    NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Draper City Contract #                                                                     Page 21 of 30
                         TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                  Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                  City’s Vested Laws
Exhibit “C”                  Map of Additional Parking Area
Exhibit “D”                  Horrocks Parking Study
Exhibit “E”                  Ground Lease (with amendments)




Draper City Contract #                                        Page 22 of 30
                                           Exhibit “A”
                                    Legal Description of Property

The Property is located in Salt Lake County, Draper City, Utah, and is described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the northerly right of way line of Mike Weir Drive; said point being South
89°52’36” East, along the section line, 269.76 feet and South 00°07’24” West, 1115.53 feet from
the Northwest Corner of Section 9, Township 4 South, Range 1 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian
(Basis of Bearing is North 89°52’36” West between said Northwest Corner and North Quarter
Corner of said Section 9); and running thence South 81°10’59” West, along said northerly right of
way line, 140.00 feet; thence North 08°49’01” West, 77.36 feet; thence north 21°25’39” West,
61.75 feet; thence North 42°46’01” West, 61.58 feet; thence South 81°39’39” West, 177.78 feet;
thence North 24°58’46” West, 168.01 feet to a point on the southerly line of a Conservation
Easement, Entry No.: 6497420, Book 7527 Page 2334, as recorded in the Salt Lake County
recorder’s office; thence along said Conservation Easement southerly line the following three (3)
courses: (1) North 38°23’38” East, 9.74 feet; (2) North 70°37’54” East, 215.75 feet; (3) North
82°35’51” East, 50.18 feet; thence South 54°50’02” East, 72.38 feet; thence South 38° 34’16” East,
183.20 feet; thence South 08°49’01” East, 187.13 feet to the point of beginning.

Containing: 2.13 Acres more or less

         A map depicting the Ground Lease is shown on the following page.




Draper City Contract #                                                                     Page 23 of 30
Draper City Contract #   Page 24 of 30
                                           Exhibit “B”
                                        City’s Vested Laws


On file with the Draper City Recorder




Draper City Contract #                                       Page 25 of 30
                                        Exhibit “C”
                                Map of Additional Parking Area

See the area shown in the maps below:




Draper City Contract #                                           Page 26 of 30
Draper City Contract #   Page 27 of 30
                                         Exhibit “D”
                                    Horrocks Parking Study


A full copy of the Parking Study from Horrocks Engineers is dated December 24, 2020, comprised
of 88 pages, and is on file with the City’s Planning/Zoning Department. A copy of the 2-page
summary in the Parking Study follows:




Draper City Contract #                                                                Page 28 of 30
Draper City Contract #   Page 29 of 30
                                       Exhibit “E”
                              Ground Lease (with amendments)


A copy of the Ground Lease between Salt Lake County and Siempre (Developer), with
amendments, is on file with the City’s Planning and Zoning Department.




Draper City Contract #                                                              Page 30 of 30
  EXHIBIT F
PARKING STUDY
PARKING STUDY
SIEMPRE EVENT CE NTER AT SOUTH
MOUNTAIN
DECEMBER 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                                                  PARKING STUDY



Table of Contents
    Executive Summary .........................................................................................................................ii
    Introduction ....................................................................................................................................1
    Parking Analysis...............................................................................................................................1
      Parking Data – Occupants per Vehicle for Each Use.............................................................................1
      Parking Distributions ............................................................................................................................1
      Peak Day Parking Requirement ............................................................................................................6
      Appendix...............................................................................................................................................9


List of Figures
Figure 1: Peak Golf Parking Space Requirements.........................................................................................4
Figure 2: Peak Event Center Parking Space Requirements...........................................................................6
Figure 3: Peak Day Parking Requirement .....................................................................................................8




List of Tables
Table 1: Vehicle Occupancy Data .................................................................................................................1
Table 2: Parking Distribution – Tournament and Regular Operations..........................................................2
Table 3: Vehicle Occupancy Data .................................................................................................................2
Table 4: Parking Distribution – Peak Golf Distribution .................................................................................3
Table 5: Event Occupancy Reduction ...........................................................................................................4
Table 6: Event Parking Requirements...........................................................................................................5
Table 7: Vehicle Occupancy Data .................................................................................................................6
Table 8: Peak Day Parking Requirement.......................................................................................................7




UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                                                 i
December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                                PARKING STUDY



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Horrocks Engineers completed a parking study to determine the parking space requirements for South
Mountain Golf Course and the proposed Siempre Event Center. To determine the parking distribution
for both the golf course and event center, data was collected at the following locations:

                             South Mountain Golf Course (1247 East Mike Weir Drive, Draper, UT)
                             Sleepy Ridge Golf Course (730 South Sleepy Ridge Drive, Orem, UT)

Sleepy Ridge includes an 18-hole golf course and event center and has a similar use to the proposed
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain Golf Course. The data collected at both locations were used to
determine a parking distribution that can be applied to a peak day scenario with the addition of Siempre
Event Center. The following describes the proposed peak day at the golf course:

                             Full Shotgun tournament in the morning followed by a banquet (6:00 AM – 2:00 PM)
                             Regular golf course operations (2:00 PM – 11:00 PM)
                             Afternoon event (8:00 AM – 3:00 PM)
                             Two (2) Evening events (3:00 PM – 11:00 PM)

The total number of required parking spaces required throughout the day is 193. The existing parking
lot has a total of 197 parking spaces. It is proposed to add an additional 27 parking spaces with the
Siempre Event Center totaling 224 parking spaces.



                                   Peak Day Parking - South Mountain Golf Course and Event Center
                             250
                             225
                             200
   Occupied Parking Spaces




                             175
                             150
                             125
                             100
                             75
                             50
                             25
                              0
                                   7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 4:00 5:00 6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00
                                   AM AM AM AM AM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM

                                    Golf Course Parking    Event Parking      Total Parking Spaces    Proposed Total Parking




UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                   ii
December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                             PARKING STUDY




INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this study is to present the findings of the parking analysis for the proposed Siempre
Event Center located at South Mountain Golf Course (1247 East Mike Weir Drive, Draper, Utah). The site
currently has 197 parking spaces available. Parking data was also collected at the following locations to
assist with the analysis:
       Sleepy Ridge Golf Course (730 South Sleepy Ridge Drive, Orem, UT)
The following describes the standards, regulations, analysis methodologies required to provide the
conclusions included in this memorandum.

PARKING ANALYSIS
This section will discuss the different methods used to calculate the number of spots required to provide
by the study property and compare the findings to the existing number of parking spots. The parking
analysis investigates the parking space requirements using survey data collected from South Mountain
Golf Course and Sleepy Ridge Golf Course & Event Center.

PARKING DATA – OCCUPANTS PER VEHICLE FOR EACH USE
Surveys were collected throughout the day on September 11th, September 12th, and September 26th at
both Sleepy Ridge and South Mountain to determine the number of people arriving per vehicle for both
the golf courses and event center. Over 2,000 vehicles entering and exiting both sites. The data shows
vehicle occupancy of 1.40 and 1.96 per vehicle for the golf course and event center respectively as
shown in Table 1 with the count data included in the Appendix.
                                     Table 1: Vehicle Occupancy Data
                              Parking Data – Occupants per Vehicle for Each Use
                         Number of Observations                         2,128
                         Average People per Vehicle – Golf               1.42
                         Average People per Vehicle - Events             1.96

PARKING DISTRIBUTIONS
The main purpose of collecting the parking data at each site is to determine parking distributions for
both the golf course and event center throughout the day. This distribution can then be applied to the
proposed peak day for the South Mountain Golf Course with the Siempre Event Center. The following
sections will provide the proposed parking distributions for both the golf course and event center based
on the data collection.

Golf Course Parking Distribution
The data collected included golf tournaments at Sleepy Ridge Golf Course. The data collection included
patrons using all amenities at each site, specifically the golf course, driving range, café, etc. There were
no tournaments at South Mountain golf course during the data collection period. Using this data, the
parking distribution for a tournament and regular operations is shown in Table 2. The data included for



UT-2592-2008                                                                                                   1
December 24, 2020
 Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                              PARKING STUDY



 each hour of the day is the percentage of the peak parking demand, which is between 1:00 – 2:00pm for
 both golf tournaments and regular operations.

                     Table 2: Parking Distribution – Tournament and Regular Operations
                           Golf              Regular                                   Golf            Regular
                        Tournament          Operations                              Tournament        Operations
                         (Sleepy Ridge)    (South Mountain)                         (Sleepy Ridge)   (South Mountain)

 6:00 AM – 7:00 AM           14%                10%            3:00 PM – 4:00 PM        46%               71%

 7:00 AM – 8:00 AM           77%                55%            4:00 PM – 5:00 PM        55%               69%

 8:00 AM – 9:00 AM           80%                67%            5:00 PM – 6:00 PM        65%               68%

9:00 AM - 10:00 AM           85%                78%            6:00 PM – 7:00 PM        37%               44%

10:00 AM – 11:00 AM          92%                82%            7:00 PM – 8:00 PM        18%                8%

11:00 AM – 12:00 PM          90%                93%            8:00 PM – 9:00 PM        10%                4%

12:00 PM – 1:00 PM          100%               100%           9:00 PM – 10:00 PM         0%                0%

 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM           79%                91%           10:00 PM – 11:00 PM        0%                0%

 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM           40%                74%

 Peak Golf Parking Distribution
 To determine parking demand at South Mountain golf course with Siempre Event Center, the peak
 parking demand throughout the day for the golf course needs to be calculated. The peak parking
 demand includes the following at the golf course:

        Full shotgun tournament followed by a banquet (6:00am – 2:00pm)
        Regular golf operations (2:00pm – 11:00pm)

 To represent parking for regular operations based on the peak parking demand for a tournament, an
 adjustment was required for the regular operations parking distribution in Table 2. Based on the data
 collected, parking demand is 33% higher throughout the day when there is a golf tournament as shown
 in Table 3. Therefore, the parking distribution for regular operations was reduced by 33% in order to
 match parking demand for regular operations based on the peak tournament parking demand and is
 shown in Table 4.

 Using this information, the peak golf distribution was determined using the golf tournament distribution
 data from 6:00am – 2:00pm and the regular operations data from 2:00pm – 11:00pm. Each value was
 rounded up to the nearest 5% to be conservative.

                                          Table 3: Vehicle Occupancy Data
                                            Average Parking Spaces Used
                                      Tournament                    78.5
                                      Regular Operations            52.5
                                      Difference (%)              26 (33%)


 UT-2592-2008                                                                                                    2
 December 24, 2020
   Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                          PARKING STUDY



   The following criteria was used to determine the peak parking demand for a tournament:

          144 Golfers (Full shotgun tournament) @ 1.40 per vehicle = 103 Spaces
          20 Staff @ 1.0 per vehicle = 20 Spaces
          Total = 133 Spaces

   Using the peak golf distribution, Table 4 and Figure 1 includes the peak golf parking space requirement
   for the South Mountain Golf Course.

                            Table 4: Parking Distribution – Peak Golf Distribution
                                            Regular Operations          Peak Golf          Peak Golf Parking
                       Golf Tournament      (Reduced for Tournament
                                                Parking Demand)        Distribution       Space Requirements
 6:00 AM – 7:00 AM           14%                    4%                     15%                     20

 7:00 AM – 8:00 AM           77%                    29%                    80%                     107

 8:00 AM – 9:00 AM           80%                    43%                    80%                     107

9:00 AM - 10:00 AM           85%                    52%                    85%                     114

10:00 AM – 11:00 AM          92%                    54%                    95%                     127

11:00 AM – 12:00 PM          90%                    61%                    90%                     120

12:00 PM – 1:00 PM           100%                   67%                    100%                    133

 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM           79%                    59%                    80%                     107

 2:00 PM – 3:00 PM           40%                    54%                    55%                     74

 3:00 PM – 4:00 PM           46%                    53%                    55%                     74

 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM           55%                    46%                    50%                     67

 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM           65%                    44%                    45%                     60

 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM           37%                    29%                    30%                     40

 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM           18%                    5%                      5%                      7

 8:00 PM – 9:00 PM           10%                    3%                      3%                      4

9:00 PM – 10:00 PM            0%                    0%                      0%                      0

10:00 PM – 11:00 PM           0%                    0%                      0%                      0




   UT-2592-2008                                                                                              3
   December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                                   PARKING STUDY



                                                   Figure 1: Peak Golf Parking Space Requirements


                                                   Peak Golf Parking Space Requirements
                             140

                             120
   Occupied Parking Spaces




                             100

                             80

                             60

                             40

                             20

                              0
                                   6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 4:00 5:00 6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00
                                   AM AM AM AM AM AM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM


Event Center Parking Distribution
The following events were collected from Sleepy Ridge:
     Evening Event – September 11th
     Afternoon Event – September 12th
     Evening Event – September 12th (2 Events)

The distribution of parking for the afternoon event was 8:00 AM – 3:00 PM and the evening events from
3:00 PM – 11:00 PM. The peak day for events for parking is when there are both afternoon and evening
events on the same day. Our analysis separates the distribution for event parking for afternoon and
evening events. In the afternoon, the peak parking occurred from 10:00 AM – 11:00 AM. The evening
peak parking occurred from 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM, as shown in Table 6.

Event Center Capacity

The event that will provide the highest parking impact at Siempre Event Center are events where a
group of people will attend the majority of the time they occupy the building. For a wedding, the people
would arrive in stages. Those invited to the wedding ceremony arrive first. After the ceremony, the
additional people invited to a wedding dinner arrive. Once the dinner is over, the rest of the people
arrive for the reception. The building includes two rooms with a capacity of 192 people per room
including tables and chairs. For the peak day, it will be assumed that 192 guests attend an event in each
event room.

From the event data collected, there was some event overlap where attendees arrive and leave
throughout the evening. Table 5 shows that there is a 10% difference between the total number of
attendees and the total number in the event center at one time. Therefore, a reduction of 10% will be
applied to the capacity of the event center rooms.




UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                        4
December 24, 2020
   Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                              PARKING STUDY



                                                   Table 5: Event Occupancy Reduction
                                                Total
                                                               Max in Event                                          %
                       Event                    Event                                        Time
                                                               Center Room                                      Difference
                                              Attendees
                   Afternoon                      53                 47             10:00 AM - 11:00 AM              12%
            Evening (September 11th)              153                127             7:00 PM – 8:00 PM               17%
            Evening (September 12th)              343                317             7:00 PM – 8:00 PM                8%
                                                                                                 Average             12%
                                                                                        Used for Analysis            10%


   The following criteria was used to determine the peak parking demand for the evening events:

            384 attendees * 10% Reduction @ 1.96 per vehicle = 177 Spaces

   For midday events, parking will be based on smaller luncheon types of events. Only one of the two
   event rooms will be available during the peak day as the other room will be used for the golf
   tournament banquet. This parking impact is included as part of the golf peak parking demand. Data
   provided shows the typical afternoon event is a smaller event with an average size of 125 attendees.
   The following criteria was used to determine the peak parking demand for a midday event:

            125 Attendees * 10% Reduction @ 1.96 per vehicle = 58 Spaces

   Applying the midday and evening peak parking demand, the parking space requirements for the peak
   day are included in Table 6 and represented in Figure 2.

                                             Table 6: Event Parking Requirements
                                                  Peak Event                                                            Peak Event
                                 Event                                                                 Event
                                                    Center                                                             Center Parking
                                Parking                                                               Parking
                                                 Parking Space                                                             Space
                             Distribution*                                                         Distribution*
                                                 Requirements                                                          Requirements
 6:00 AM – 7:00 AM                 0%                    0              3:00 PM – 4:00 PM                10%                   18
 7:00 AM – 8:00 AM                 0%                    0              4:00 PM – 5:00 PM                35%                   62
 8:00 AM – 9:00 AM                10%                    6              5:00 PM – 6:00 PM                75%                  133
 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM               30%                   18              6:00 PM – 7:00 PM                85%                  151
10:00 AM – 11:00 AM               100%                  58              7:00 PM – 8:00 PM               100%                  177
11:00 AM – 12:00 PM               90%                   53              8:00 PM – 9:00 PM                50%                   89
 12:00 PM – 1:00 PM               90%                   53             9:00 PM – 10:00 PM                25%                   45
  1:00 PM – 2:00 PM               20%                   12             10:00 PM – 11:00 PM               0%                     0
  2:00 PM – 3:00 PM                0%                    0
* Midday Pead Demand of 56 Spaces applied from 6:00am – 3:00 pm and Evening Peak Demand of 177 Spaces applied from 3:00pm – 11:00pm




   UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                       5
   December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                                   PARKING STUDY



                                               Figure 2: Peak Event Center Parking Space Requirements

                                              Peak Event Center Parking Space Requirement
                             200
                             180
   Occupied Parking Spaces




                             160
                             140
                             120
                             100
                              80
                              60
                              40
                              20
                               0
                                   6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 4:00 5:00 6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00
                                   AM AM AM AM AM AM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM


PEAK DAY PARKING REQUIREMENT
Using the peak day distributions, the total parking spaces is calculated by adding the golf course and
event center parking requirements. The following describes the full peak day operations at the golf
course and event center:

                                  Full Shotgun tournament in the morning followed by a banquet (6:00 AM – 2:00 PM)
                                  Regular golf course operations (2:00 PM – 11:00 PM)
                                  Afternoon event (8:00 AM – 3:00 PM)
                                  Two (2) Evening events with a total of 384 invited guests (3:00 PM – 11:00 PM)

The maximum number of required parking spaces will be 193 spaces between 5:00 PM – 6:00 PM, as
shown in Table 8, and Figure 3. There are currently 197 parking spaces at South Mountain Golf Course.
It is proposed by the developer to add an additional 27 spaces when the event center is built to provide
a total of 224 parking spaces as shown in Table 7. This leaves an additional 31 parking spaces (16%) for
overflow parking.

                                                            Table 7: Vehicle Occupancy Data
                                                      Parking Spaces at South Mountain Golf Course
                                                Existing Parking Spaces                        197
                                                Proposed Total Parking Spaces                  224
                                                Parking Spaces Required on Peak Day            193
                                                Additional Parking Spaces (%)                31 (16%)




UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                        6
December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                         PARKING STUDY



                             Table 8: Peak Day Parking Requirement
                           Golf Peak Day             Event Peak Day            Combined Peak Day
                            Distribution              Distribution                Distribution
                         Tournament with Regular                                 Total Parking Spaces
                                                   Midday and Evening Events
                               Operations*                                             Required

    6:00 AM – 7:00 AM      27            20%          0               0%                 27
    7:00 AM – 8:00 AM     100            75%          0               0%                100
    8:00 AM – 9:00 AM     107            80%          6              10%                113
    9:00 AM - 10:00 AM    107            80%         18              30%                125
   10:00 AM – 11:00 AM    120            90%         58             100%                178
   11:00 AM – 12:00 PM    120            90%         53              90%                173
    12:00 PM – 1:00 PM    133            100%        53              90%                186
    1:00 PM – 2:00 PM     120            90%         12              20%                132
    2:00 PM – 3:00 PM      66            65%          0               0%                 66
    3:00 PM – 4:00 PM      67            60%         18              10%                 85
    4:00 PM – 5:00 PM      67            55%         62              35%                129
    5:00 PM – 6:00 PM      60            50%        133              75%                193
    6:00 PM – 7:00 PM      40            35%        151              85%                191
    7:00 PM – 8:00 PM       7            15%        177             100%                184
    8:00 PM – 9:00 PM       4             5%         89              50%                 93
    9:00 PM – 10:00 PM      0             0%         45              25%                 45
   10:00 PM – 11:00 PM      0             0%          0               0%                  0




UT-2592-2008                                                                                            7
December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain                                                               PARKING STUDY



                                                         Figure 3: Peak Day Parking Requirement



                                  Peak Day Parking - South Mountain Golf Course and Event Center
                            250
                            225
                            200
  Occupied Parking Spaces




                            175
                            150
                            125
                            100
                            75
                            50
                            25
                             0
                                  7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 4:00 5:00 6:00 7:00 8:00 9:00 10:00 11:00
                                  AM AM AM AM AM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM

                                   Golf Course Parking       Event Parking    Total Parking Spaces   Proposed Total Parking




UT-2592-2008                                                                                                                  8
December 24, 2020
Siempre Event Center at South Mountain   PARKING STUDY



APPENDIX




UT-2592-2008                                         9
December 24, 2020
Siempre Daily Operations Schedule
Weddings are very predictable as to time of day, duration, and number of guests. All of this information
is known, planned and contracted through the booking process. Food, tables, chairs and certain fees are
based on these quantities. The two event rooms are identical in size and have tabled seating capacity
for 192 guests.

Clients do not want to burden guests with a long drawn out day. A compressed wedding day schedule is
always preferred. Ninety five percent of weddings will follow this typical late afternoon and evening
schedule:

10:00 am – 3:00 pm      Decor, floral set up and preparation 5-10 vendors, workers

4:00 pm – 4:30 pm       Wedding Ceremony 50-100 guests

4:30 pm – 5:00 pm       Photography – Dinner set up

5:00 pm – 6:30 pm       Wedding dinner 50-100 guests (same guests as ceremony)

6:30 pm – 10:00 pm      Wedding party or flowing reception 100 -200 total guests



Note:

By contract events must be concluded by 10:00 pm. Most events finish around 9:00 pm.

Some clients have their ceremony off site (temples) and begin their event between 5:00 and 6:00. Other
clients will simply host a flowing reception from 6:00 to 9:00 pm with refreshments (no dinner).

Siempre projects hosting 200 weddings per year. Based on 12 years of operating history at Sleepy Ridge
the weddings will be held on the following months and days.



         MONTH                        Number of       MONTH                        Number of
                                      Weddings                                     Weddings
         JANUARY                         14           JULY                            18
         FEBRUARY                        4            AUGUST                          27
         MARCH                           20           SEPTEMBER                       19
         APRIL                           8            OCTOBER                         21
         MAY                             20           NOVEMBER                        10
         JUNE                            22           DECEMBER                        17
                                DAY OF THE WEEK             Number of
                                                            Weddings
                                MONDAY                         7
                                TUESDAY                        16
                                WEDNESDAY                      25
                                THURSDAY                       20
                                FRIDAY                         57
                                SATURDAY                       75
                                SUNDAY                         0


It is also known that of the 200 Siempre weddings, on approximately 32 of the dates, the venue will be
hosting two events at the same time. When a second wedding is requested on a date already booked,
attention is given to the quantity of guests anticipated to ensure venue capacity is not exceeded. This is
critical to ensure the quality of each event and to receive positive reviews.



Golden Holt
Owner
From:             golden holt
To:               John Park; Kevin Croshaw
Subject:          Fwd: DAYTIME GUESTS
Date:             Thursday, October 1, 2020 5:46:37 PM




Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:


       From: caroline@goldenlandscaping.com
       Date: October 1, 2020 at 5:43:38 PM MDT
       To: Golden Holt <goldenholt@gmail.com>
       Subject: DAYTIME GUESTS


       ﻿
                                                                           Date
                 Wedding                  Event Date     W   PM   AM     Booked     Guest Count   Room
           Barlow/Wood                     3/23/2019     W        AM    1/12/2019      130        Sunset Rm 9-2p
           Mancuso/Willey                  3/30/2019     W        AM    8/22/2018       90        Sunset Rm 9-2p
           Schauman/Lifferth               4/27/2019     W        AM   10/30/2018      140        Garden Rm 9-2p
           Moosman/Jones                    5/2/2019     W        AM    1/29/2019      120        Garden Rm 9-2p
           Burtunek/Anderson               5/11/2019     W        AM    12/1/2018      125        Sunset Rm 9-2p
           Austin/Blume                     6/1/2019     W        AM   11/12/2018      140        Sunset Rm 9am-2p
           White/Nixon                     6/14/2019     W        AM   1/23/2019       120        Garden Rm 9am-2p
           Zenger/Liu                       7/6/2019     W        AM   1/12/2019       130        Garden Rm 9-2p
           Sloan/Smith                     7/27/2019     W        AM   1/31/2019       120        Sunset Rm 9-2p
           Dudley/Noyce                   10/12/2019     W        AM   4/27/2019       105        Garden Rm 9-2p
           Mann/Bodily                     12/7/2019     W        AM   10/2/2019       150        Garden Rm 9-2p



                 Virus-free. www.avg.com
   Daytime Event Data
Date        Count
3/23/2019       130
3/30/2019        90
4/27/2019       140
5/2/2019        120
5/11/2019       125
6/1/2019        140
6/14/2019       120
7/6/2019        130
7/27/2019       120
10/12/2019      105
12/7/2019       150
Average         125
         Occupancy per vehicle
              Events       Golf
Total Cars        282          441
Total People      548          627
People/Car        1.94         1.42
                                   People                Vehicles                 People                  Vehicles                  People                 Vehicles       Total
 Sleepyridge Saturday
                          In          Out       In           Out        In           Out        In            Out         In           Out       In            Out
 6:00:00 AM 6:15:00 AM         5            0        5              0         0             0         0               0        0             0         0              0    5
 6:15:00 AM 6:30:00 AM         0            0        0              0         5             1         3               1        0             0         0              0    3
 6:30:00 AM 6:45:00 AM         3            2        3              2         5             0         5               0        0             0         0              0    8
 6:45:00 AM 7:00:00 AM         6            2        6              2        11             0         8               0        0             0         0              0    14
 7:00:00 AM 7:15:00 AM         1            0        1              0        15             0        12               0        0             0         0              0    13
 7:15:00 AM 7:30:00 AM         2            0        2              0        25             0        17               0        0             0         0              0    19
 7:30:00 AM 7:45:00 AM         1            0        1              0        16             0        12               0        0             0         0              0    13
 7:45:00 AM 8:00:00 AM         2            1        2              1         3             0         3               0        0             0         0              0    5
 8:00:00 AM 8:15:00 AM         2            0        2              0         1             0         1               0        0             0         0              0    3
 8:15:00 AM 8:30:00 AM         2            1        2              1         4             0         2               0        0             0         0              0    4
 8:30:00 AM 8:45:00 AM         4            0        4              0         1             1         1               1         3            0         1              0    6
 8:45:00 AM 9:00:00 AM         0            0        0              0         0             2         0               z         3            0         2              0    2
 9:00:00 AM 9:15:00 AM         3            0        3              0         7             3         4               3        2             0         1              0    8
 9:15:00 AM 9:30:00 AM         0            2        0              1         4             5         2               5        3             0        2               0    4
 9:30:00 AM 9:45:00 AM         3            2        3              2         4             1         2               1        5             0        2               0    7
 9:45:00 AM 10:00:00 AM        2            1        2              1         1             1         1               1        0             0        0               0    3
10:00:00 AM 10:15:00 AM        0            1        0              1        10             4         8               4        16            0         9              0    17
10:15:00 AM 10:30:00 AM        0            2        0              2        10             0         8               0        14            1         6              1    14
10:30:00 AM 10:45:00 AM        0            0        0              0         5             2         4               2        2             1         2              1    6
10:45:00 AM 11:00:00 AM        1            2        1              2         7             3         5               3        2             1         2              1    8
11:00:00 AM 11:15:00 AM        0            0        0              0         6             5         5               5        0             0         0              0    5
11:15:00 AM 11:30:00 AM        0            0        0              0        11             5         8               5        1             0         1              0    9
11:30:00 AM 11:45:00 AM        0            1        0              1         7             1         4               1        0             1         0              1    4
11:45:00 AM 12:00:00 PM        2            1        2              1         8             7         5               7        0             3         0              3    7
12:00:00 PM 12:15:00 PM        0            0        0              0        15             8         9               8        0             0         0              0    9
12:15:00 PM 12:30:00 PM        1            0        1              0        14             5        10               5         0            1         0              1    11
12:30:00 PM 12:45:00 PM        0            0        0              0        12             1         7               1        0             0         0              0    7
12:45:00 PM 1:00:00 PM         0            2        0              2         5             5         4               5        1             1         1              1    5
 1:00:00 PM 1:15:00 PM         1            0        1              0        12             7         8               7        0             2         0              2    9
 1:15:00 PM 1:30:00 PM         0            2        0              2        17             4        12               4        0             1         0              1    12
 1:30:00 PM 1:45:00 PM         0            0        0              0         7             3         6               3        1             8         1              8    7
 1:45:00 PM 2:00:00 PM         4            3        4              3        13            18        10              18        0             7        0               7    14
 2:00:00 PM 2:15:00 PM         2            1        2              1         4            10        4               10        0             5        0               5    6
 2:15:00 PM 2:30:00 PM         0            1        0              1         8            13        6               13        0             5        0               5    6
 2:30:00 PM 2:45:00 PM         3            1        3              1         7             4         5               4        0             7         0              7    8
 2:45:00 PM 3:00:00 PM         0            1        0              1        10             6         6               6        0             0         0              0    6
 3:00:00 PM 3:15:00 PM         0            1        0              1        11            10         9              10        0             1         0              1    9
 3:15:00 PM 3:30:00 PM         0            1        0              1        10            15         7              15        1             0         1              0    8
 3:30:00 PM 3:45:00 PM         1            0        1              0        11             4         6               4        3             0         2              0    9
 3:45:00 PM 4:00:00 PM         1            2        1              2         9             5         6               5        17            0        10              0    17
 4:00:00 PM 4:15:00 PM         0            2        0              2        11             4         8               4        11            0         7              0    15
 4:15:00 PM 4:30:00 PM         0            0        0              0         8             5         7               5        12            2         6              2    13
 4:30:00 PM 4:45:00 PM         0            0        0              0        12            12         6              12        14            2         7              2    13
 4:45:00 PM 5:00:00 PM         0            1        0              1         5             6         4               6        34            2        16              2    20
 5:00:00 PM 5:15:00 PM         0            2        0              2        11             2         8               2        38            1        22              1    30
 5:15:00 PM 5:30:00 PM         1            0        1              0        20             7        15               7        36            2        17              2    33
 5:30:00 PM 5:45:00 PM         0            1        0              1        11             9         5               9        27            0        14              0    19
 5:45:00 PM 6:00:00 PM         0            2        0              2         4             9         3               9         6            0         4              0     7
 6:00:00 PM 6:15:00 PM         0            0        0              0         1             3         1               3         0            4         0              4     1
 6:15:00 PM 6:30:00 PM         0            0        0              0         4            10         2              10        8             0         3              0    5
 6:30:00 PM 6:45:00 PM         0            0        0              0         3            13         3              13        11            1         6              1    9
 6:45:00 PM 7:00:00 PM         1            0        1              0         5            11         4              11        17            5        11              5    16
 7:00:00 PM 7:15:00 PM         0            1        0              1         4             9         2               9        44            5        18              5    20
 7:15:00 PM 7:30:00 PM         0            1        0              1         3             7         2               7        29            8        17              8    19
 7:30:00 PM 7:45:00 PM         0            0        0              0         1            12         1              12        29            8        13              8    14
 7:45:00 PM 8:00:00 PM         0            0        0              0         0             5         0               5        6             8         2              8    2
