9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): A subordinate residential dwelling,
detached from the primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and
sanitation facilities.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:

       A. Within a primary dwelling;
       B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory
          dwelling unit is created; and
       C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

…

DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.

DWELLING, PRIMARY: A single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the
primary residence of the owner of record.

DWELLING, RENTAL: A building or portion of a building that is used or designated for use as
a residence by one or more persons; and

       A. Available to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a period of one month or
          longer; or
       B. Arranged designed, or built to be rented, loaned, leased, or hired out for a
          period of one month or longer.



9-30-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for a second
kitchen within a single-family residence. These regulations are adopted for the following
purposes:

       A. To allow city residents to have a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling
       unit for use by the family residing within the dwelling unit for the purpose of
       entertaining, recreation or convenience, accessory to the first kitchen within the
       dwelling unit.

       B. Approval of a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling unit shall not be an
       approval of a second dwelling unit or an internal accessory dwelling unit (I-ADU)
      within the single-family dwellingwithout the required approvals for such as
      prescribed under chapter 31 of this title.



9-30-020: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PERMITTED USE:

      A. A second kitchen in a single-family residence (dwelling unit) may be allowed in
      an A5, A2, RA1, RA2, RH, R3, R4, R5, or RSD zone if all of the following requirements
      are met:

             1. The residence shall have has only one front entrance.

             2. The residence shall have has only one address.

             3. An interior access shall be is maintained to all parts of the residence to
             assure that an second dwelling unit or I-ADU accessory unit or apartment is
             not created. There shall be no keyed and dead bolt locks or other manner of
             limiting or restricting access between both kitchens and other common areas
             within the single-family from the second kitchen to the remainder of the
             residence.

             4. The residence shall have has no more than one electrical meter.

             5. A second kitchen shall exists only as part of the single-family dwelling
             primary structure and shall is not be installed in an accessory or "out"
             building except as permitted with a detached accessory dwelling unit (D-
             ADU) pursuant to Section 9-31-050.

             6. Construction of any such kitchen shall meet standards of the current
             building codes adopted by the city.

      B. A second kitchen shall not be established in a single-family residential structure
      which contains an I-ADUaccessory dwelling, whether or not such I-ADU accessory
      dwelling was established pursuant to chapter 31 of this title.



9-31-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for internal
accessory dwelling units (I-ADUs) and detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADUs) within
specified residential zones. These regulations are adoptedThese regulations are adopted
for the following purposes:
       A. To allow city residents to create a separate dwelling unit for accommodate
       guests or tenants on the a single-family residential property in the same manner
       and purpose as the main dwelling;

       B. To accommodate an ADU in single dwelling zones that allow only one dwelling
       structure per parcel with minimal mitigate impacts on of I-ADUs and D-ADUs to the
       surrounding neighborhood in terms of traffic, noise, parking, congestion, and
       compatible relative scale and appearance of surrounding to adjacent residential
       buildings; and

       C. To establish uniform standards of use and development of for both I-ADUs and
       D-ADUs.



9-31-020: SCOPE:

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any I-ADUs and D-ADUs within the city. I-
ADUs shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts within the I-ADU
overlay zone. D-ADUs shall be a permitted use on individual single-family lots or parcels in
all primary residential zoning districts or when a including single lot or parcel unit
development is approved in the RM1 and RM2 zoning districts, but only when if the lot or
parcel meets the minimum lot areas as required standards defined in section 9-10-
090, table 9-10-3 of this title, is satisfied. D-ADUs are also permitted in residential special
districts (RSD) if the minimum lot area of the single unit lot or parcel is twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet or larger.



9-31-030: DEFINITIONS:LIMITATIONS:

As used in this chapter:

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A subordinate residential use detached from the
primary dwelling unit, which has a kitchen, living/sleeping area, and sanitation facilities.

DWELLING LOT: A parcel with one dwelling unit.

DWELLING OCCUPANT: One or more persons living in a dwelling unit.

DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a single dwelling designed for or occupied as living
quarters which provide sleeping and sanitary facilities and which includes at least one
kitchen, and where all rooms are for exclusive collective use by the occupants and the
property is under one deed of title.

DWELLING UNIT FOOTPRINT: The perimeter footing or foundation of the dwelling unit.
PARCEL: A lot legally subdivided and assigned a county assessor's parcel number (APN).
(Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)

   A. D-ADUs may not be constructed on any property containing an I-ADU. As a
      condition of approval for any application for construction of a D-ADU the property
      owner shall agree to waive any right to construct an I-ADU on the same property
      unless the D-ADU is first removed from the property. This condition shall be
      included in the recorded notice of accessory dwelling unit required by Section 9-31-
      060 of this chapter.

   B. Only one I-ADU within the primary dwelling is permitted. I-ADUs are not permitted
      within a D-ADU or other dwelling structure.

   C. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots or
      parcels that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.

   D. I-ADUs shall not be approved in mobile homes, nor in a primary dwelling unit with a
      failing septic tank system.

   E. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.



9-31-040: D-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:

   A. Separate Structure: An D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling
   unit. Second kitchens within a dwelling unit's footprint are not considered an ADU and
   are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of this title.

   B. Conditions: An D-ADU may be allowed under the following conditions:

      1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per dwelling lot or parcel.

      2. An D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for a main building in not be
      within the building front, rear, or side yard setbacks for the zoning district in which
      the dwelling lot or parcel is located.

      3. An D-ADU shall be located within the rear yard area of the lot or parcelnot be
      built prior to the completion of the dwelling unit.

      4. An ADU shall provide at least one additional parking stall than above that
      required for the primary dwelling unit shall be provided on site in its zoning district.
      The parking stall may not be tandem with parking serving the primary dwelling unit
       and shall be accessible from the street by a driveway constructed of a hard surface,
       such as concrete or asphalt. Driveways must conform to all requirements of Section
       9-10-075 and other applicable requirements of this Title.

       5. No separate mailbox, street address, or water, sewer, electric or gas utility
       metering shall be allowed for an ADU.

       56. An The square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
       primary dwelling unit's total square footage of habitable space of all floors,
       excluding the garage.

       67. An D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at
       the time the D-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including
       the obtaining of required building and other permits.

       78. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials for an of a D-ADU shall
       match those of the primary dwelling unit.

       89. The height of an D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for main
       buildings in the zoning district in which it is located.



9-31-045: I-ADU DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU:

   A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU must be contained within the existing footprint of
      primary dwelling structure. Second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint
      are not considered an I-ADU and are subject to requirements found in chapter 30 of
      this title. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be
      converted as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with
      all other standards for I-ADUs listed in this Chapter.
   B. Conditions: An I-ADU may be allowed under the following conditions:
           a. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
           b. At least one additional parking stall above that required for the primary
               dwelling unit shall be provided on site. The parking stall may not be tandem
               with parking serving the primary dwelling unit and shall be accessible from
               the street by a driveway constructed of concrete or asphalt. Driveways must
               conform to all requirements of Section 9-10-075 and other applicable
               requirements of this Title.
           c. If required parking stalls for the primary dwelling are removed as part of the
               creation of an I-ADU, they shall be replaced elsewhere on the lot or property
               in conformance with current parking and access standards.
          d. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in
             effect at the time the I-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently
             remodeled. An applicant for an I-ADU shall obtain all required building and
             other permits.
          e. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the
             primary dwelling may not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter
             the appearance of the primary dwelling from that of a single-family dwelling.



9-31-050: ADDITIONAL SECOND KITCHENS:

An additional second kitchen in an D-ADU may be allowed for the purpose of
entertainment or recreation as long as the second kitchen is not intended to serve a does
not create a separate dwelling unit or living accommodation within the D-ADU.



9-31-060: NOTICE OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT:

As part of the I-ADU or D-ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a
"notice of accessory dwelling unit" affidavit that defines the approved use and all
restrictions or conditions of approval. The city shall record the notice with the county
recorder as a use condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form approved by the
Draper City attorney.



9-31-070: LICENSING:

Review 6-14-010, 6-14-020, 6-14-030 and the consolidated fee schedule



9-31-080: ENFORCEMENT:
