Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: May 13, 2021
Re: South Willow Pad Site - Java Express Amended Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of an Amended Site Plan including a deviation from site design standards for approximately 3.05 acres located on the south side of 12300 S, at approximately 177 W. 12300 S. The property is currently zoned CR . The applicant is requesting that an amended site plan be approved to allow for the development of a section of the parking lot for a drive through restaurant. The findings are as follows: Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-050(A)(1) – Building Placement
For Approval:
1. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable master plan or ordinance.
2. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.
For Denial:
1. The project does not meet a minimum of 3 of the required conditions listed in DCMC Section 9-22-030(B).
Amended Site Plan
For Approval:
1. The site plan amendment represents completion of the phased development plan for the overall site.
2. The proposed site plan conforms to all applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the CR zone.
4. Public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of the DCMC, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For Denial:
1. The proposed site plan does not conform to all applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the CR zone. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 5/5/2021 Cover Memo