Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: October 14, 2021
Re: Auto Nation Site Plan Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan for approximately 6.1 acres located on the east side of Lone Peak Parkway, at approximately 11601 S. Lone Peak Parkway. The property is currently zoned KMAC-CSD (Karl Malone Auto Center Commercial Special District) . The applicant is requesting that a Site Plan be approved to allow for the development of the currently vacant site as a car dealership for buying, selling, and servicing new and used cars. The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The existing and proposed development of the entire site has been addressed with the site plan amendment.
2.  The site plan together with the listed conditions conforms or will conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
3.  The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the KMAC-CSD zoning district.
4.  Public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
5.  The proposed development plans comply or will comply with the engineering standards found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage, and utilities concerns.
For Denial:
1.  The site plan does not conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and building materials.
2.  The proposed development plans do not meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the general plan and the purpose of the KMAC-CSD zoning district.
3.  Public facilities and services in the area are do not adequately support the subject development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
4.  The proposed development plans do not comply with all required engineering standards as found in Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 10/1/2021 Cover Memo