3-1-150: BOARDS AND COMMITTEES:
-1-150: Subordinate Bodies: The City Councilcity council may create any agencies, boards,
bureaus, committees or commissionssubordinate body deemed necessary or appropriate for the
administration of the Citycity and shall prescribe by resolution or ordinance the organization, powers and
duties of such bodies.

3-1-160: GENERAL RULES FOR BOARDS AND COMMITTEES:
-1-160: General Rules for Committees: Unless otherwise provided by law or these ordinances, the
following rules shall apply to all City boards, commissions, committees, councils, foundations and
agencies, all of which are hereinafter referred to as "committees". formed under this chapter.
   A.
         A. Committees shall be anare advisory boardbodies only. Neither the committee nor its
             members have authority to either represent, act, negotiate or speak on behalf of the City, or to
             commit City funds for any purpose unless expressly authorized by the city council.


        B. Committees shall consist of a number of members as the City Councilcity council shall
provide by ordinance or resolution;.

         C. Members. Committee members shall be appointed by the Mayormayor with the advice and
consent of the City Councilcity council. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, committee members
shall serve four-year terms. When a new committee is created, half of the members first appointed to the
committee may be appointed to an initial two-year term so that appointments to the committee are staggered;.

        D. Chairperson. A chairperson shall oversee the proceedings and activities of each committee.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all chairpersons shall:

                1. be appointed by the mayor; and
                2. serve a two-year term;.

        E. Vice-Chair or Temporary Chair. Each committee may appoint a vice-chair on an annual basis or
temporary chair on a per meeting basis to act as the chairperson in in the event the chairperson is unable to
attend or participate in the meeting.

          F. Committee members may be removed from office with or without cause by majority vote of the
City Councilcity council.;
   E. Committee
          G. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, committee members shall receive no compensation
for their services, but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties,
and except as otherwise provided,. Committee members shall be deemed "volunteers" for purposes
of Citycity ordinances, rules and regulations regarding personnel. However, they shall be included in the
definition of “employee” for purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated, as amended;.
   F.
         H. Committees shall conduct meetings in accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
A committee shall keep a public record of committeesits proceedings, and all minutes of the meetings and
decisions of a committee shall be filed in the Office of the City Recorder as public records. Meetings of a
committee may be called by the Chairpersonchairperson, a majority of the members of thea committee,
the Mayor, City Manager, City Councilmayor, city manager, city council or the department head
assigned to work with the committee;.
  G.
         I. Committees may receive funds by an annual appropriation in the Citycity budget, by government,
corporate or private grants or donations, and from proceeds of approved committee functions, which funds
shall be held and managed as directed by the City Council. city council.

        J. Advisor. The city manager shall designate a member of the city staff to serve as an advisor to
each committee. The designated staff member shall serve only to advise and act as a liaison to the city
administration and shall have no power to vote on matters coming before the committee.

        K. Quorum. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Three votes shall be the
minimum number of votes required for a motion to pass unless three votes does not constitute a majority of
the quorum present; in which case, a majority vote carries a motion.

        L. Electronic Meetings. Committees may conduct electronic meetings in accordance with the Open
and Public Meetings Act. To conform with the Open and Public Meetings Act, a quorum must be present at
the anchor location unless the chairperson determines that a meeting with an anchor location presents a
substantial risk to the health or safety of the public.



3-1-180: DRAPER CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:

…

                C. Members:

                1. Number: The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of not less than
five three (53) nor more than nine (9) members who shall have a demonstrated interest,
competence or knowledge in historic preservation or architecture. To the extent available in the
community, two (2) commission members shall be "professionals" from the disciplines of history,
architecture or architectural history, as defined by the National Park Service regulations.
Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, three (3) members of the commission may
be non-residents of Draper City provided, however, such non-resident member of the
commission must own property designated on the Historic Sites List or on the Historic Landmark
Register.

…

                D. Organization And Procedures:

                        …
                6. Quorum: No official business of the commission shall be conducted
except in the presence of a properly constituted quorum. A quorum shall consist of the
attendance of not less than a majorityat least three (3) of the members. of the
commission.
