Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: January 14, 2021
Re: City Initiated Windsor Mill – Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 0.29 acres located at approximately 11450 S 820 W. The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that the property be rezoned from the RA2 zone to the RM1 zone and the land use map be amended from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium/High Density . The findings are as follows: Zoning Map Amendment:
For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  There are adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  There are not adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
Land Use Map Amendment:
For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment complies with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F).
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment does not comply with DCMC Section 9-2-020(F). ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 1/8/2021 Cover Memo