                                         March 11, 2021

Via E-mail: laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov

Dear City Council Members,

Please accept this letter, and the attached resume, as my application to continue serving in the
Administrative Control Board (“ACB”) for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District. I was
appointed in early 2017 and have served as its Treasurer since last June. I am a registered
voter within the boundaries of the Special Service District.

My wife and I have lived in Draper since May 2004. Our three daughters were born and have
been raised in Draper. Shortly after we moved a neighbor welcomed us and asked if we had any
“Draper pride.” I wasn’t sure what he meant, so I asked him to explain. He simply said, “you’ll
know it when you do.” After attending our first Draper Days, I knew what he meant. And I had it.
And every year we’ve gone to the parade or the rodeo, it’s reaffirmed. We have “Draper pride”
and we have never considered moving. I’ve lived in the Special District since we moved to
Draper, and love this community. I walk (or snowshoe) its trails, sometimes acting as the de
facto “poop fairy”, and arrange for youth groups in my neighborhood to pick up trash and debris
in the Spring and early Summer to keep it clean and beautiful.

Aside from serving in the ACB, I serve my community as a board member of a couple of
non-profit organizations - one offering low cost and free legal services to the disadvantaged,
disabled, and vulnerable; and another promoting the value of the humanities throughout the
State. I am a practicing attorney as corporate legal counsel for a drilling company
headquartered in Salt Lake City.

Since being appointed Treasurer, I have worked alongside City staff to find ways to
communicate more clearly and find cost-effective solutions for the services the special district is
required to offer. The work being done by the ACB, this Council, and City Staff is meaningful
and worth the effort. I wish to continue to volunteer my time and talents to serve our community.

Thank you in advance for your consideration. I look forward to answering any questions you
may have.

Respectfully yours,

Simón Cantarero
                                        J. SIMÓN CANTARERO
P   +1 801 244 8972              E   cantareros@gmail.com        A    1654 E Amber Crest Lane Draper UT 84020



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY                                                                   EDUCATION
Legal counsel skilled at facilitating execution of corporate priorities, driving    University of California, Berkeley
profitability by implementing processes to achieve revenue and productivity         B.A., International Political
goals, and managing risk and litigation with Big Law firm experience and in         Economy (2000)
corporate legal departments.                                                           Cal Scholar

LEGAL EXPERIENCE                                                                    Brigham Young University
                                                                                    J. Reuben Clark Law School
Boart Longyear Company                                                              Juris Doctor (2004)
Corporate Counsel (since May 2018)                                                     Editor-in-Chief, BYU Journal of
Supporting business functions for global company offering drilling and                 Public Law
geological data services and products to the mining and natural resources
industry. Providing corporate guidance to executives and business unit
leaders on broad range of legal, transactional, regulatory, and employment
                                                                                    BAR ADMISSIONS
matters. Negotiating and drafting commercial agreements with vendors and
customers. Overseeing compliance and delivering training on anti-bribery,           2004, Utah (#10208 – Active & In
foreign corruption, and human trafficking policies and practices.                   Good Standing)


Cantarero Law Office, PLLC                                                          2009, United States Court of
Attorney (May 2017 – May 2018)                                                      Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
Outsourced general counsel to businesses with gross revenues under $10
million. Represented clients in corporate transactions, commercial
agreements, employment matters, debt financing, internal investigations, and        LEADERSHIP
protection of trade secrets and proprietary information.
                                                                                    • Chair, Utah Supreme Court’s
                                                                                      Advisory Committee on Rules of
LifeVantage Corporation
                                                                                      Professional Conduct
Corporate Counsel (January 2016 – May 2017)
                                                                                    • Board of Trustees, And Justice
Corporate attorney for international, publicly traded maker and direct seller of
                                                                                      For All
over-the-counter dietary supplements and personal care products.
                                                                                    • Board of Directors, Utah
Responsible for corporate transactions, commercial agreements, regulatory
                                                                                      Humanities
compliance, and support of sales strategy and international expansion. Work
                                                                                    • Board Member, Administrative
in tandem with accountants, tax advisers, sales and marketing professionals.
                                                                                      Control Board for Traverse
                                                                                      Ridge Special Service District
Costa Vida Management LLC                                                           • Past Member, Judicial
General Counsel (May 2013 – December 2015)
                                                                                      Nominating Commission (Fourth
Chief legal officer for privately owned franchisor and operator of restaurants.
                                                                                      Judicial District)
Oversaw expansion of restaurant chain into other states and Canada from
                                                                                    • Past President, Utah Minority
under 20 operating stores to over 100 in different stages of operations and
                                                                                      Bar Association (2007-2008)
development. Responsible for compliance of franchise regulations nationally,
                                                                                    • Ex Officio Bar Commissioner,
employment matters for fast-growing brand, commercial leasing and
                                                                                      Utah State Bar (2008-2009)
development, and financing transactions.
Pearson & Butler PLLC                                                              RECOGNITION
Attorney (May 2011 to May 2013)
                                                                                   • “Rising Star” in Mountain States,
Counsel for individuals, small- and mid-sized companies with commercial
                                                                                     Super Lawyers Magazine (2009,
litigation, corporate transactions, commercial agreements, real estate
                                                                                     2011, 2012)
development, and debt financing and workouts. Litigated negligence-based
                                                                                   • “Legal Elite” in Business
claims, contract disputes, real estate, and employment matters.
                                                                                     Litigation, Utah Business
                                                                                     Magazine (2010, 2011)
Holland & Hart LLP
Associate Attorney (May 2007 – May 2011)
Business litigation attorney in national law firm, representing diverse client
base from startup businesses and multinational corporations. Representative
                                                                                   LANGUAGES
clients included insurers, secured lenders, mining companies, direct sellers,      • Spanish (Native; Fluent –
and oil & gas service companies. Litigated cases in State and Federal courts,        Written and Spoken)
primarily in Utah and mostly for the defense on wide variety of contract
disputes and business torts.

Strong & Hanni PC
Associate Attorney (October 2003 – May 2007)
Civil litigator defending negligence claims with catastrophic injuries, business
torts, contract and commercial disputes, first- and third-party insurance
claims, and employment litigation. Representative clients included property,
casualty, automobile and life insurers, direct selling companies, oil & gas
service companies, and privately owned businesses.



SCHOLARSHIP & PUBLICATIONS
Adjunct Professor, BYU J. Reuben Clark Law School, teaching Ethics.

“Who Makes the Call on Capital Punishment? How Ring v. Arizona Clarifies
the Apprendi Rule and the Implications on Capital Sentencing,” 17 BYU J.
PUB. L. 323 (2003) (cited in Berry v. State, 882 So.2d 157 (Miss. 2004)).

“Our Tradition in the Rule of Law,” Intermountain Commercial Record and
Salt Lake Times, May 1, 2008.

Book Review: No One Makes It Alone by Andrew A. Valdez, Utah Bar
Journal, July/August 2008.

Presenter, “Understanding Rights Under Oil & Gas Leases,” Oil, Gas &
Mineral Land Law Seminar, Salt Lake City, UT (April 2009).

Presenter and Panelist, “Education as a Civil Right,” Salt Lake Community
College (September 2011).

Regular presentations to high-school students who will be first-generation
college applicants from disadvantaged backgrounds.
