MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 15,
2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson,
                    Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie,
                    Finance Director; Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner
_____________________________________________________________
Study Session

1.0   Oath of Office Ceremony for Draper City Firefighters

1.1   Fire Chief Clint Smith said that these were special events for the department
      and demonstrate the quality of individuals who were a part of it. They also
      demonstrated the ability for rank advancement in the department. He said
      that tonight they would be recognizing two new captains. The first was Captain
      Steve Darlington. Captain Darlington was promoted the previous year during
      the pandemic, so the department had not had the chance to do an official
      swearing-in until now. Chief Smith explained that Captain Darlington had
      been with the department since it was founded four years ago. Before coming
      to Draper, Captain Darlington had worked for 16 years for the South Salt Lake
      Fire Department. In the early days, Captain Darlington was an experienced
      paramedic and brought a wealth of knowledge to the department to get newer
      paramedics up to speed.

      The second person being sworn in was Captain Kevin Wilkey. Captain Wilkey
      was a recent promotion. His position came about with the retirement of
      Captain Hinterman. Captain Wilkey came to Draper from the Orem Fire
      Department two years ago. He had 10 years of experience with the Orem Fire
      Department. When Captain Wilkey first tested for the Draper Fire Department
      he was offered an open position from Chief Smith. However, he had some
      other opportunities in Utah County that he wanted to pursue so he passed on


Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – June 15, 2021
      the position. To his credit, he called Chief Smith a few months later and
      expressed that he was interested in being a part of Draper.

      Chief Smith asked both captains to come to the front for Laura Oscarson, City
      Recorder, to facilitate the official oath of office. This was followed by a badge
      pinning.

      Chief Smith then thanked the captains’ family for supporting the two captains
      and trusting the City to take care of them as they take care of others. He also
      thanked the Mayor and Council for their support of the Fire Department.



2.0   Discussion: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) Options -          Jennifer
      Jastremsky and Todd Draper

2.1   Jen Jastremsky, Senior Planner, said that she and Todd Draper, Planner, were
      going to take turns talking. She explained that in the most recent legislative
      session HB 82 was passed that allowed for internal accessory dwelling units (I-
      ADUs) to be created in single-family dwellings within the existing footprint.
      This meant that cities had to make some modifications to their code. Tonight,
      the goal was to go over what HB 82 said, the types of regulations the City can
      require, and get some feedback from the Council on the direction they would
      like staff to move. She said that there was an October 1st deadline to establish
      regulations before the law takes effect.

      She said that I-ADUs were allowed in areas zoned primarily as residential. At
      a minimum, the City will need to modify its code to have those as permitted
      uses. She said that the state law intended to create long-term rental units
      within existing communities. She said that the law did require that units be
      owner-occupied. However, the law limits what cities can regulate and
      prohibits Home Owner Associations (HOA) to regulate internal I-ADUs.
      Currently, the City allows detached accessory dwelling units (D-ADUs). These
      were separate from the home that had to meet architectural standards and
      maximum square footage standards. She noted that there were some
      neighborhoods in the City under special development agreements that did
      allow for some I-ADUs.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that staff wanted to go over four possible approaches:

                                                                           Page 2 of 33
         1. Wait and see.
         2. Provide minimum or basic regulations for I-ADUs.
         3. Enact moderate regulations for I-ADUs, including some basic rental
            regulations.
         4. Enact all allowed regulations for I-ADUs, update standards for D-ADUs,
            create rental regulations for both long- and short-term rentals.

      She said that staff hoped to come back before the Council in July with some
      potential language for them to look at before amendments were taken
      through the public hearing process for a full-text amendment.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if someone could currently have a garage
      apartment and an I-ADUs.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that Draper’s code allows for a second kitchen within a
      home. She said that the staff was looking to see if there was a connection
      between those spaces. She said that the code did allow for a full kitchen and
      bathroom. She said that if the City kept the code the way it was, someone
      could have a D-IAU in the back and an I-ADU inside the house.

2.2   Todd Draper, Planner, began to go over the four different scenarios.

         (1) Wait and See

            Mr. Draper said that in this situation I-ADUs would be limited to
            regulations within State Law: owner occupancy of primary dwelling
            would be required; required to comply with all building, health, and fire
            codes; allowed in all residential zones, with no lot size restrictions;
            allowed in mobile homes; allowed in dwellings with failing septic tanks;
            I-ADUs could install separate utility meters and request separate
            addresses.

            He said that the new law could cause the City to have to engage in more
            enforcement that was not currently in the code. If the City took the wait-
            and-see approach it would limit enforcement both now and in the
            future. He said that if no action was taken, it was also possible that
            some properties could have both I-ADUs and D-ADUs at the same time.

                                                                          Page 3 of 33
(2) Provide Minimum of Basic Regulations

   This would include adding a City ordinance that required owner-
   occupancy of single-family homes that have I-ADUs. In addition, they
   could require a business license or registration for I-ADUs and
   additional parking for I-ADUs. These could impact staffing. The City
   could prohibit the installation of additional utility meters, as well as the
   creation of I-ADUs in mobile homes and in dwellings with failing septic
   tanks. At this level, the City could provide a basis for enforcement.

(3) Enact Moderate Regulations

   At this level of regulation, all of the minimum regulations would apply
   with the addition of requiring a need for a building permit. The City
   could apply the allowable design standards and prohibit I-ADUs on lots
   less than 6,000 square feet. Currently, D-ADUs were only permitted on
   lots larger than 12,000 square feet. Beyond basic enforcement, the City
   could look at fines and penalties. This, however, could further impact
   staffing. Lastly, the City could require notice on the property deed of
   applicable restrictions for I-ADUs. This could help alleviate issues when
   these properties were bought and sold.

(4) Enact All Allowed Regulations for I-ADUs and update D-ADUs

   This would be an all-in option, 180 degrees from the City’s current
   practice. All of the previous regulations would apply, but staff would
   look at the details for the D-ADUs so that their regulations more closely
   matched those for I-ADUs. Staff could also look at regulations for short-
   term rentals and rental regulations. One point that came out of the
   League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) discussion when talking about
   regulating rentals was because of short-term rentals. Mr. Draper said
   that staff did not know the number of short-term rentals in Draper but
   generally did not get a lot of complaints about issues with them. The
   ULCT’s primary issue was with North Salt Lake. He stated that state law
   did allow the City to enforce short-term rentals if it enacted the
   appropriate ordinances.


                                                                  Page 4 of 33
      Mr. Draper then outlined a timeline for moving forward with this issue. The
      new state law would go into effect on October 1, 2021. On July 20, 2021, staff
      planned to bring an initial draft of the ordinance to the Council’s study session.
      On August 12, 2021, they would present at the Planning Commission Hearing.
      Then, on September 7, 2021, they would present at the City Council Hearing.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the Council took the approach of the fourth
      option, all in regulation, he wondered how it would impact properties that
      would violate the ordinance that was currently allowed.

      Mr. Draper said that some of the properties in South Mountain were already
      non-conforming. He said that the biggest impact would be to those that were
      already in violation and were not owner-occupied as older ordinances and
      development agreements were also required. The biggest change was that
      there would be an enforcement ability that was currently lacking.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that there were some neighborhoods that staff would
      need to evaluate further to give the Council a full answer. She said that South
      Mountain was a good example of a bunch of neighborhoods that had
      detached, above garage apartments. Some neighborhoods already had I-
      ADUs. Because South Mountain was under a separate development
      agreement with different design standards, what was discussed today might
      not impact the regulations they were held to.

      Councilmember Lowery asked if staff could set regulations by area.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that one thing with the all-in approach was that the City
      was allowed to prohibit I-ADUs in 25% of land area that was residentially
      zoned. At that point, staff could look at the zoning map to see what areas the
      Council might be interested in limiting.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, told Councilmember Lowry that typically when
      the City enforces one resident, they point to their neighbor to say that they are
      also not in compliance, creating a domino effect.

2.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if staff could give her more information on
      the short-term rental regulation possibilities. She asked what the staff were
      thinking about in this area.

                                                                            Page 5 of 33
      Ms. Jastremsky said that the new state law now allowed cities to prohibit I-
      ADUs from being short-term rentals. The law, however, prohibited the City
      from regulating short-term rentals that were not I-ADUs.

      Mr. Draper added that state law not only allowed the City to prohibit I-ADUs
      as short-term rentals but to regulate them. He said that North Salt Lake chose
      to create I-ADUs and allow some of them to be short-term rentals and others
      not. He said that short-term rentals were difficult to enforce.

2.4   Councilmember Roberts turned to option 2: minimum enforcement. He
      wondered about the point to provide a basis for enforcement. He wondered
      what that meant.

      Mr. Draper said that this could include basic provisions. A process for citing
      residents and for them to appeal. Otherwise, an enforcement officer could
      say that someone was in violation.

      Councilmember Roberts wondered on a practical level how these regulations
      would be enforced.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that there were already enforcement policies in the City.
      This typically entailed the enforcement officer going out and speaking to a
      homeowner to seek compliance. The City could issue citations and fines. State
      law allows the City to initiate liens if regulations were established. She said
      that certain elements were easier to regulate like additional parking and the
      installation of utility meters. Things like owner-occupancy were harder to
      regulate because the City could not just say that the renter had to move out
      and the owner had to move back in. Renters have their rights.

      Councilmember Roberts said that it seemed like some regulations could easily
      be enforced, but that most would be difficult to do. He said that his view was
      that they should regulate what forced people to go through the City as a
      checkpoint, but that anything over and above was too hard, too cumbersome
      on staff, and two evasive to residents.




                                                                         Page 6 of 33
2.5   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the Council decided to impose some
      regulations, but then decided after October 1 that there was more, they would
      like to implement, was the City able to do that.

      Ms. Jastremsky said yes. They were able to make additional changes to the
      code.

      Mr. Dobbins said that no matter what, staff would message out to residents
      that they needed to comply with state law voluntarily so that down the road
      they were not approached by the City to comply.

2.6   Councilmember T. Lowery said that one of her biggest concerns was street
      width and parking on the street because there were already really narrow
      streets. She asked if staff had looked at the possibility of limiting I-ADUs based
      on street width.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that state law did not allow staff to look at street widths.
      The City could look at it based on zones. She said that she didn’t think that
      they would be able to add a regulation restricting I-ADUs based on private
      lanes or specific street widths.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like many of those areas
      prohibited I-ADUs through HOAs, but this law took that regulatory power
      away. She felt as though it would open a whole can of worms and safety
      problems.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if additional parking regulations could help
      curb some of the development of I-ADUs.

      Ms. Jastremsky said parking regulations would be the City’s ability to require
      off-street parking spaces for the I-ADUs.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said she thought that would be critical. She said that
      she had already seen many I-ADUs around her. Many of them were always on
      the street. She said that parking would be the biggest thing neighbors were
      angry about.




                                                                            Page 7 of 33
      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt it was an appropriate thing to be
      angry about because it was dangerous. She felt that addressing parking and
      accessibility needed to be a top priority for the Council.

      Councilmember F. Lowry added that was why registration needed to be
      required. That would create a record of the location of I-ADUs so that when
      the Fire Department got called in, they would know that a location might have
      multiple residents.

2.7   Mayor Walker considered option 3, moderate regulation. He reminded the
      Council that HB 82 was a negotiated bill. He spent a lot of time on the bill to
      try and kill it. He didn’t think that it did anything to reduce the cost of housing
      or rent. He said that the 6,000 square feet requirement was something that
      he suggested. He had also insisted that residences needed to be owner-
      occupied. He felt that the City should adopt the moderate level of regulation
      because a bunch of the points was what was negotiated to get the bill passed.
      To pass the “do whatever” approach, didn’t honor the time spent negotiating
      for more regulations before the bill was passed. He said that if they did not
      pass the 6,000 square feet. requirement, there would be so many complaints
      from people who purchased in neighborhoods who did not expect cars to be
      parked all over the streets.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he appreciated all of the Mayor’s work on
      the bill. He asked if the street width was ever discussed, or was the 6,000
      square foot lot the primary negotiation point.

      Mayor Walker said that all of it was discussed, this was the compromise to get
      the bill passed. He felt that they could enforce businesses licenses. He said
      that it was a class-B misdemeanor if you didn’t have one and were supposed
      to.

2.8   Councilmember Roberts asked if there were currently I-ADUs in the City.

      Ms. Jastremsky said yes.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the City had tried to or enforced them.




                                                                            Page 8 of 33
Ms. Jastremsky said that there wasn’t anything in the code that said that
residents could not rent their houses. The code allows for a second kitchen
and access. She said that there was a fine line between if a homeowner
created a separate unit versus someone having a border within their home.

Councilmember Roberts said that he was thinking specifically about Peppy
Band. There were a handful of neighbors who had pointed out people who
had separate locks and keys to different doors. He said that he’d gotten emails
from several residents. He asked if the City had ever tried to enforce those
situations.

Ms. Jastremsky said that the neighborhood was in South Mountain and was
tied to the 1990 code. There had not historically been enforcement in that
neighborhood. The 1990 code did have regulations for ADUs. They were also
required to be owner-occupied and limited the ability to charge rent. She said
they were strict and that the City had not historically enforced them.

Councilmember Roberts asked if the City had not enforced ADUs because it
was too difficult on staff.

Mr. Dobbins said that it had just never been a priority. He said that staff had
not gotten specific direction from the Council to do so, so they hadn’t. There
was also a resource issue. There was one code enforcement person for the
entire City. He said that if the City was to start doing that type of enforcement,
they would need to look at how they allocate their resources. He said that he
talked with someone at Eagle Mountain who told him that they had three code
enforcement officers. Part of the reason why staff had not gone after
enforcement was that once they did, they would have to go all in.

Councilmember Roberts asked what the necessary resources would look like
and how they would impact staffing, the budget, and the total cost to the
taxpayer.

Mr. Dobbins said that staff had not gone down that path because they didn’t
know which option to model. He said that once the Council indicated that
policy path they were interested in pursuing, staff would need to go back and
look at what additional resources were needed to enact that policy.


                                                                      Page 9 of 33
2.9    Councilmember Vawdrey asked if they required licensing if there would be
       some revenue.

       Mr. Dobbins said that there would be. He just had no idea how much.

       Councilmember Vawdrey said that if there were additional regulations put in
       place, they would be easier to enforce when violations occurred. She said that
       neighborhoods would be affected by this bill and the City needed to have
       some way to enforce the regulations to reduce impacts.

2.10   Mr. Dobbins responded to Council Member T. Lowery’s point about street
       widths. He said that while state code did not allow cities to use street widths
       as a determining factor, Draper as a City could determine which areas the I-
       ADUs were appropriate or not appropriate. The City could use whatever
       criteria they felt was appropriate to determine which geographic areas it was
       or was not appropriate for I-ADUs to be.

       Councilmember Vawdrey asked if the City prohibited lots less than 6,000
       square feet, they would not be included in the other 25% of the total area.

       Mr. Dobbins said that was his understanding; they could just say nothing
       under 6,000 square feet. period and then come up with the 25% on top of
       that.

       Councilmember F. Lowry asked if staff could come up with what areas in
       Draper have a certain road width that they could see how much would fit in
       the 25%. He acknowledged that it sounded like a big task.

       Ms. Jastremsky said that staff could put that together.

       Mr. Dobbins said that he thought the staff could provide the Council with areas
       with narrow roads, as well as places that have lots less than 6,000 square feet
       so that there was data to start making decisions.

       Mayor Walker noted that the parking requirement was also negotiated. He
       said that in the Mehraban Ponds area, Chief Smith would have to get a bigger
       hose to shoot over houses because he wouldn’t have access if there were a
       bunch of I-ADUs.

                                                                         Page 10 of 33
2.11   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Chief Smith had anything to add to the
       discussion.

       Fire Chief Clint Smith said that he felt the Council had hit the key points and
       noted that for them, on-street parking becomes very problematic in areas
       where there were narrow or private streets.

       Councilmember T. Lowery suggested that if he had areas in mind that he felt
       would be problematic that he communicates those to staff and the Council.

2.12   Councilmember Roberts asked how staff would force someone to get a
       business license.

       Ms. Jastremsky said that staff would start with a public notification and
       engagement process to communicate that the new laws were taking effect.
       She said that when they get a complaint about a business, the code
       enforcement officer goes out to cite them to let them know that they have to
       come into compliance with a business license. There were associated fines.
       She said that proving that someone had an I-ADU would be tricky. However,
       when she worked in West Jordan, they did have some regulations and some
       enforcement. Most of the time people would claim that an additional resident
       was a family member, or was renting a room. State law did outline a process
       for citations and liens and outlined timelines for notification, response, and
       coming into compliance.

       Councilmember Roberts asked that staff provide some possible enforcement
       scenarios and some estimates for the cost. He said that he did feel that a lot
       of the items protected residents if they could be enforced.

2.13   Councilmember Green said that he was comfortable with option three,
       moderate regulations.

       Councilmember F. Lowry asked if they could add regulations to option three.

       Mr. Dobbins said they could. All of these could be mixed and matched. He
       said that if the Council provided staff direction, they could modify and expand
       the options before coming back to the Council.

                                                                         Page 11 of 33
      Councilmember F. Lowry asked for the street widths and 6,000 square foot
      lots to be identified.

      Mayor Walker requested that staff craft the regulations that make the most
      sense and give the City the most power to protect neighborhoods.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was in favor of option 3, but would like
      to address short-term rentals. He recognized that enforcement was a
      challenge, but without regulation, you couldn’t enforce it.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that to Councilmember F. Lowry’s point, if they
      did not include the short-term rentals, then none of it could be enforced. She
      felt that the short-term rental piece had to be included in what was presented
      to the Council.

      Mr. Draper mentioned that the short-term rentals could be a stand-alone
      portion of the code if more time was needed to address that particular issue.

3.0   Update: Capital Improvement Projects – Rhett Ogden

3.1   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, went over various park capital
      improvement projects. He said that although there were slides in the
      presentation, they had put the all-abilities playground on hold. Currently,
      Parks and Recreation are working on maintaining Draper’s paved trails. These
      include the Porter Rockwell Trail from Draper Park to South Mountain Bridge,
      the Draper Canal Trail, the Deer Hollow Trail, and the Bunny Bradley Trail.
      They had also just added the trail that went around Bubbling Brook Park. All
      of these trails would get crack and seal pavement treatments.

      Next, Mr. Ogden talked about the projects happening at the Jordan River
      Rotary Park. Although the park was pretty torn up, he hoped that there would
      be pavement by the end of June or the beginning of July. He said that the
      current parking lot was expanded, and a pull-through access road was being
      added. The County had said that they were looking to install the actual boat
      launch in the Spring of 2022.

      Despite delays, the Orson Smith Trailhead parking lot was coming along.

                                                                       Page 12 of 33
      In regards to the Bonneville Shoreline Trail Lehi Loop, the department had
      completed the section to Lehi where their Momentum Trail started. However,
      problems had occurred in the section that used to be the Dave Mast area. The
      section had since been purchased, so Lehi was trying to acquire the
      appropriate trail easements. Until they were secured, no further work could
      be done on the project.

3.2   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the section could be hooked into Deer
      Ridge and then in Maple Hollow once they got to the top of the mountain.

      Mr. Ogden said that anything was possible. He said that there would be some
      pretty steep inclines with a lot of switchbacks.

      Mayor Walker said that he took Lehi’s Mayor Johnson on an e-bike ride from
      the Lehi side to Draper’s Traverse Trail. He said that the loop would be nice to
      be able to come back. Right now, once you were at the Traverse Trail you had
      to come back down Sensei without getting across the ridge. The jeep road was
      too steep. He said that he knew that Lehi’s trail committee wanted to create a
      connection. He said that they were doing a great job.

      In regards to the Edelweiss Trail, it was mostly finished. There was a short
      section between the homes that the contractor was putting fill in before they
      could finalize the trail. Mr. Ogden felt that this trail would be a great asset
      because of its connection to Ann’s Trail. It also connected to Mercer Mountain,
      where you could connect to Porcupine to create a nice loop. He said that it
      was a unique trail in that it came over the front side of the mountain to the
      north and back over the mountain to the south.

      Recently staff had completed the connector portion of the Peacemaker and
      Longview Trails. This was paid for by the Trails Foundation and was completed
      by Draper’s trail crews.

      When speaking about the Carpe Diem Backcountry Trail, Mr. Ogden said that
      it was, “really neat and in some gorgeous country.” He said the trail was under
      construction. The north end would be completed by the Utah Conservation
      Corps (UCC), the middle part would be completed by a contractor, and the


                                                                         Page 13 of 33
bottom section would be completed by Draper’s crews. The trail was roughly
⅔ done.

Mr. Ogden then updated the Council on some of Draper’s loop trails. The first
was the Peakview / Hidden Meadows Foot Trail Loop. Some of the trail was
already completed. The west portion was done and Draper’s crews would
work on the portion behind the development. He said that trail was similar to
Lupine and would be a great foot-only trail that was a little over two miles.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that one question that the Council gets a lot
about the trails was if dogs were or were not allowed. She requested that
when staff pushes out the opening of the trails to residents that they make
sure to label them clearly if dogs are or are not allowed.

Mr. Ogden said that for the three trails he was presenting, special signs were
designating the loop system and that no dogs and bicycles were allowed. The
signs looked different than the rest of the trail system signs.

He then talked about the Coyote Hollow / Burnham Foot Trail Loop. He
suspected that it would be Draper’s most popular loop. The west section was
already completed, so crews were focusing on the east part of the trail. Of
that section, they were about a third completed. It was built completely by
hand by Draper’s Parks and Recreation crew. It was anticipated to be
completed this summer.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if it was only a 1.4-mile loop.

Mr. Ogden said that was correct.

Councilmember Roberts asked which one of the foot trails Mr. Ogden
recommended that they try out first.

Mr. Ogden said that the Coyote Hollow Trail would be the easiest to start on,
but that the most scenic would be the Maple Hollow / Telegraph Foot Trail
Loop. He said that it went into some of Draper’s newer property that would
be hard to access without the trail. It was a four-mile loop that would get into
some gorgeous country. Two-thirds of the trail had been completed. The only


                                                                   Page 14 of 33
disadvantage to the trail was that there was not an improved trailhead with a
plumbed restroom at the start.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that what was cool about this trail was the huge
bench and tepee that was put in. She said that kids loved that.

Mayor Walker asked if it was a dog on-leash area.

Mr. Ogden said that dogs could go on this trail on-leash. He said that dogs had
to be on leash on all of the trails.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that her kids like the trails more when they
have secret elements to them.

Lastly, Mr. Ogden updated the Council that he had a meeting tomorrow with
Landmark Design to talk about the Parks, Trails, and Recreation Master Plan
to set a schedule to get the plan created. As part of this, staff would hear from
residents what the City was doing well, where they could improve, and what
residents would like to see in the future. He recognized that they would not
be able to implement everyone, but that it would help the department get a
pulse of what the community was feeling. This would also give the City a new
master plan. The current master plan for parks, trails, and recreation was
almost 13 years old and rather outdated.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked how many miles of trail Draper had.

Mr. Ogden said that at last count there were 120 miles between primitive and
paved. This did not include the new additions. With them, the City would push
130 miles of trail. He said that to his knowledge that was the most trail miles
a municipality had in the western United States.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if a trail was going in near the boat launch
along the Jordan River. She wondered if some signs were needed.

Mr. Ogden said that some signs were put in on the Jordan River Trail itself
about the habitat, the river, and the wildlife. There were also signs in
production that would be on the Peakview walking trail. He was excited about
the details such as the pipeline history that would be included in the signs.

                                                                    Page 15 of 33
      Councilmember Vawdrey said that she had gone up to the Telegraph Trail. She
      said that it was beautiful. There were sego lilies everywhere, something she
      had not seen a lot in Utah. She thanked Mr. Ogden for all he was doing to
      create hiking trails.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports

4.1   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had a resident who expressed some
      disappointment that the new rec center did not have basketball facilities and
      wanted to know about the opportunity of having a rec center. The resident
      also mentioned that some playgrounds did not have breakaway basketball
      rims. He wanted to know if there was anything the City could do to address
      that.

      Mr. Ogden said that he would not suggest the breakaway rims on any of the
      City’s outdoor playgrounds. He said that once people know they are
      breakaways, people hang on them so much that they end up replacing them
      more. He said that he was happy to do it, but that the City would be replacing
      them more than with the double rims that were installed. He said that he knew
      that there were residents who wanted glass backboards as well. He said that
      he did not think that would be wise. The City was using good, commercial
      equipment that might not be the best play, but was durable.

4.2   Councilmember Roberts asked for a status update on the mainline water pipe
      issues on Suncrest and the situation with the contractor.

      Mr. Dobbins said that when they got into the road to look at the actual
      waterline, it became clear that the project was far more difficult than
      anticipated. Staff could not find a contractor willing to do the project. Because
      of this, the staff is reassessing if they are going to do the project as proposed,
      or just replace the line. He said that this would most likely delay the whole
      project. He said that the road itself was the easy part, but that they didn’t want
      to fix the road just to tear it up to fix the waterline. Most likely, they would tell
      residents that the project would be delayed so that they could do the whole
      project at once. Staff intended to gather all of this information and share it
      with residents so that they know what happened and why.


                                                                             Page 16 of 33
      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that as they began to replace the fire
      hydrants, it was discovered that the waterline was not located where it was
      supposed to be. The line was 12’ deep when it was supposed to be 6’ deep.
      Those kinds of costs were what contractors were not willing to risk. The
      difference between 6 and 12’ was tremendous in cost because of additional
      safety measures. All of the contractors were skeptical. This meant that the
      prices were going up to the point that repairing was going to cost as much or
      more than a complete replacement. This did not make sense because there
      were still additional repairs that were needed.

      Mr. Dobbins said that there was also a timing issue. If they could not get the
      waterline contractor in to get it started now, they would risk having the road
      torn up during the winter.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if they had to remove the old waterline, or
      could they put a new one in at six feet above it.

      Mr. Cooley said that they would abandon it in place and fill it with concrete
      and sand so that it would not collapse in the future. Some of the shallower
      parts would be removed as the new line was installed. Right now, the intent
      was to put in a new line.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he recognized that this was not good news and not what
      was anticipated. He said that the worst thing they could do was rush
      something like this. As hard as it was to delay, he would rather do it right.

4.3   Mr. Dobbins wanted to talk about food trucks. He said that there were a
      couple of people who wanted to do food trucks on City property. The school
      wanted to do food trucks once a week once their parking lot cleared out. It
      had also been talked about having food trucks at City parks, at the Andy
      Ballard Arena. He wanted to know the position of the Council. He said that
      the staff had talked with some local restaurant owners. Some local
      restaurants were opposed because they had to pay overhead and property
      taxes. Others in the local area asked that food trucks not be allowed in the
      City’s core, but to allow them further out to capture people who were not going
      to restaurants, like the Andy Ballard Arena on the weekend. He wanted to
      know if the City wanted to support this, and if they did, suggested that the City


                                                                          Page 17 of 33
      do it right. If they had food trucks at the Arena, he felt they should spend some
      money on things like tables and shade coverings.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the Arena competed with the restaurants.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the restaurants that he had talked with personally felt
      that those locations were okay because they captured people who were
      mountain biking and might have just gotten in the car and left the City. These
      were people who might not have gone to a local restaurant anyway.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he thought that would be a great use of the
      property.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she loved the idea of having food trucks
      up at the Arena. She said that there would be a great audience and that it
      would be a great use of the space. She also thought that this could be
      expanded over time to have local performers have summer concerts or a
      farmer’s market.

      Councilmember Vawdrey suggested to Councilmember F. Lowry that his board
      could get involved with the initiative.

      Mr. Dobbins said that if the City was sponsoring the food trucks, they wanted
      to make sure that there was access to restrooms, water, etc. to make sure they
      were not creating a problem that they would later regret.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the idea of getting some canopies and
      creating sitting areas was critical and nice.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that there was already a snack shack providing
      water and restroom facilities.

4.4   Fire Chief Clint Smith provided an update on the fire crew that was deployed
      the previous Thursday. They were initially called for severity, a preposition in
      the Moab area. That same day that the crew was called, the Pack Fire began
      burning outside of Moab. It continues to burn after jumping one of the
      containment lines. The Draper crew was providing engine and medic support.
      They were being kept close to the basecamp and were providing crash rescue

                                                                          Page 18 of 33
      support. In addition, Draper crew members were providing initial attack (IA)
      in response to new starts in the area. They were doing well and would likely
      be down for the full 14-day tour. It was highly likely that as soon as they came
      back, that it would quickly be turned around.



Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Jake Sorensen offered a thought and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Recognition: High School Student Achievements

3.1   Mayor Walker recognized many high school students’ achievements.
        1. Josh Milford received an appointment to the United States Naval
           Academy with senatorial nominations for Representative Mitt Romney
           and Congressman John Curtis. He graduated valedictorian from Corner
           Canyon High School with a 4.0 GPA. He was also a multi-sport athlete
           and participated on the mountain biking team.
        2. Next, there were a group of students who earned academic all-state
           recognitions from the Utah High School Activities Association. The
           award was based on ACT scores, GPA, and success in a sport or activity.
           Students given academic all-state honors included: Trace Ross
           (basketball); Ella Frankhouiser, Maya Robinson, and Savannah Savage
           (drill); Makay Larsen, Chloe Seaboard, and Steel Smith (swimming).
           Corner Canyon high school teams also had amazing and successful
           showings in the following sports: 6A State Championship 2021 Varsity
           National Champions Cheerleading Team, 6A State Championship Boys
           Lacrosse Team, 6A State Championship Track Team, 6A State
           Championship Singles, 2nd place state champions for boys’ tennis and
           girls’ golf.
        3. Jaxson Dart, Corner Canyon quarterback, won the 2020-2021 Gatorade
           National Football Player of the Year. He passed for 4,691 yards and 67
           touchdowns this past season. He also maintained a 3.9 GPA and will be
           playing for USC in the fall.

                                                                         Page 19 of 33
            4. Brooklynne Lemon was honored for her work “Rights to the People” at
               the 2021 Freedom Festival.

         Mayor Walker congratulated all of the amazing Draper students. He said that
         the City was proud of them and could not wait to see what their future holds.

4.0      Public Comments

4.1      Eric Hansen, resident, wanted to speak up and support any initiatives to
         improve communications and efforts to be prepared for emergencies,
         especially during the wildfire season. He said that he knew this was a tense
         time of year for Draper and Utah in general, with the drought conditions the
         state was facing. He was speaking as a concerned citizen. Part of the impetus
         was in some of the volunteer work he did with the Draper Hem Radio
         Association and trying to facilitate those communications. He said that this
         was just a general request. He wanted to acknowledge and make the Council
         aware of various residents' needs, as well as the willingness of the Hem Radio
         Association and other volunteer organizations to partner with various City
         organizations to make sure the City was ready in case of emergency.

5.0      Consent Items

      a. Approval of June 1, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #21-24, appointing Garrett VanAmen to the Draper City
         Special Event Arena Committee.
      c. Approval of Resolution #21-25, amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule.
      d. Approval of Resolution #21-26, appointing Han Kim, Erin Seibel, and Gary
         Thompson to the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Committee.
      e. Approval of Resolution #21-27, appointing Michelle Coker and Jocelyn Kessler
         to the Draper Tree Committee.
      f. Approval of Resolution #21-34, reappointing Andrew Adams, Gary Ogden, and
         Lisa Fowler to the Draper City Planning Commission.
      g. Approval of Interlocal Cooperation Agreement #21- 111, an Interlocal
         cooperation agreement with Salt Lake County for traffic signal installation at
         Suncrest Drive and Eagles Stone Way (14960 South 2285 East)
      h. Approval of Interlocal Cooperation Agreement #21- 112, an Interlocal
         cooperation agreement with Salt Lake County for traffic signal installation at
         Bangerter Parkway and Vestry Road/Future Way (14470 South 300 East)

                                                                          Page 20 of 33
      i. Approval to Dispose of Property Held as Evidence Pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
         24-3-101, staff is requesting approval to dispose of property that has been
         held as evidence.

5.1      Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve the Consent Items a through i,
         with b, d, and e going into effect with the adoption of O-1493.
         Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

5.2      A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
         and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0      Public Hearing: Resolution #21-29, approve Resolution #21-29, amending the
         FY2021 Fiscal Year Budget.

6.1      Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said that as they look at the final budget for the
         current year FY 21-22, this was the last opportunity as staff to true the budget
         up at the end of the year. He said that there were 13 items he would like to go
         through. He prefaced the first three items by saying that they were all
         impacted by the transportation impact fees.

                  1. FY21-48 (450 E. 123000 S. Widening): Staff was requesting
                     additional funding because expenditures for contractor projects
                     were going up. The Council had already approved the initial
                     budget of $150,000. Staff requested an additional $75,000.
                  2. FY-21-49 (Peak Parkway, Jordan & SNL Canal): Again, this was a
                     previously approved project. Staff requested an additional
                     $35,000 from transportation impact fees.
                  3. FY21-50 (12200 South Widening): This was approved in
                     September of 2020 for $455,000. Staff requested an additional
                     $150,000.
                  4. FY21-51 (Carlquist Roundabout): Similar to the other projects,
                     staff requested additional funding. In this case, they requested
                     $25,000, but the money would come from the B&C Fund.
                  5. FY21-52 (Freeway Water Pump Stations): The pump station that
                     currently provides water to zones two and three get overheated
                     with all the work. The way to reduce the temperature was to cut
                     back on the pumps. Because of this, staff requested $70,000


                                                                            Page 21 of 33
   from the water fund to install cooling units in the pump station to
   help with water supply in zones two and three.
6. FY21-53 (Covid-19 Expenditures): Throughout the year, staff had
   tracked all of the COVID-19 expenditures. These were all of the
   operational expenses that some divisions incurred during the last
   year. They were now going to take the federal funding received
   and apply to the three departments the funding they had spent
   over the course of the year. IT would receive $66,900, Fire would
   receive $118,400, and Ambulance would receive $563,300 for a
   total reimbursement across the three departments of $743,600.
7. FY21-54 (Recurring Capital Projects): Every year for the last
   several years, the City had included in the budget projects that
   recurred where they were trying the buildup the fund balance to
   cover any unexpected expenses that might come up. These
   funds included: building maintenance ($200,000) fire apparatus
   replacement ($350,000), traffic calming devices ($75,000), the
   parks pavement management program ($100,000), and general
   fleet replacement ($767,000). The $1,492,000 would all come
   from the General Fund.
8. FY21-55 (Adjustments to approved Capital Projects): These were
   existing capital projects that staff wanted to put more funding
   into. These included: the Steeplechase Fire Line ($75,000), City
   Hall Building Improvements ($447,000), the new Public Works
   building ($1,000,000), and Draper Park and the adaptive
   playground ($750,000). The full amount requested, $2,522,000,
   would also come from the General Fund. This would allow these
   one-time capital projects to be funded in FY20-21 as opposed to
   FY21-22.
9. FY21-56 (Fleet Fund): The Fleet Fund was a new division created
   in the City. It was an internal fund that provided services to the
   City, but they charge the departments who use those services a
   fee. A similar strategy had been used for the risk management
   fund. Because this was a new fund, staff wanted to pre-load the
   fund so that it could start with a fund balance. There were two
   components to this request: $750,000 to support operational and
   capital expenditure and $1.5 million to be transferred into the
   fund in support of the new Public Works building capital project.
   $2,250,000 was the total request on this item.

                                                         Page 22 of 33
          10. FY21-57 (Capital Equipment): As staff went through the FY21-22
              budget requests there was capital equipment that staff thought
              should just be funded now. These five items include: a 40’ stand
              up park strip mower ($8,000), an axel under equipment trailer
              ($10,500), an anti-icing brine system ($42,000), a towable boom
              lift ($27,000), and a 4-wheeler for sidewalk maintenance
              ($11,000). These requests total $98,600.
          11. FY-21-58 (Replacement Generator): The generator behind fire
              station 21 on 800 East was 20 years old and had a lot of
              maintenance issues. Between Fire Station 21 and the new Public
              Works building, it would be supporting two new buildings. Staff
              had requested $87,400 to put in a new generator.
          12. FY21-59 (Water Wise Landscaping): Staff wanted to create a
              capital project for water-wise landscaping in the parkway stripe
              for $250,000. This would come from the General Fund Balance.
          13. FY21-60 (One-time incentive): said that this past year many
              employees worked the entire time during COVID, many of whom
              were behind the scenes. For example, trash got picked up every
              day. Because the City had held out on employees’ annual pay
              raise for six months and to recognize employees’ hard work, Mr.
              Dobbins wanted to give employees a one-time payment based on
              their work status.       Full-time employees would get $500,
              permanent part-time employees $250, $150 to crossing guards,
              and $100 to recreation employees who work limited hours.

In regards to budget amendment FY21-55, Mr. Dobbins explained that what
the Council was approving was the budget for the playground. Staff intended
to take the Council to look at different playgrounds to make sure that they
accomplished what the Council wanted. He emphasized that they were not
approving a specific playground tonight, they were just approving the budget.

Mr. Dobbins also commented on the FY21-59 budget amendment. He said
that he had spoken with WaterPro. There was a lot of concern about the
drought and potential water restrictions. Residents often don’t know that they
are not on City water. Rather than have WaterPro push out their information,
staff wanted to do a joint statement to residents about Draper’s water
availability, and do a joint project. They thought they could identify a City park
that just had grass in the park strip and work to do a sample water-wise project

                                                                    Page 23 of 33
      so that residents could see what it looked like. Jordan Valley had said that they
      were willing to help fund some of the projects, too. He said that with growing
      concerns about the amount of water available and landscaping, this would be
      a good chance to partner up with those two entities to do something together.

6.2   Councilmember Roberts asked how much of the park strip could be re-
      landscaped with the money allocated towards the water-wise project.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the staff did not know. He said that when he talked with
      Jordan Valley that they felt that the project could be done in the $50,000 range
      to do a park strip in a bigger park. He said that before staff spent any money,
      they would come back to the Council and go over a more detailed budget.
      Jordan Valley also thought that the City could do a matching grant. If residents
      wanted to do it, Jordan Valley would cover a portion of the costs.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought the water-wise project was
      great. She thought residents were interested in being more water-wise and
      were also reaching out to the City regularly about ways in which the City was
      not being water-wise. She felt that it was important that if the City was asking
      residents to implement water conservation efforts to their own homes and
      yards that the City model those same practices.

6.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, no one came forward so Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

6.4   Councilmember T. Lowery voiced that she was appreciative of Draper’s staff
      who stayed with the City during the past year and a half that was so difficult.
      She said that the City could not have made it through without them. She said
      that the sacrifices they made were noticed and appreciated.

      Mayor Walker said that Draper did a lot of good work with very few people. He
      said that Draper had one of the leanest staffs of cities around. He said that
      they did great work.

6.5   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #21-29, amending the
      FY2021 Fiscal Year Budget. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.




                                                                         Page 24 of 33
6.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-30, approve Resolution #21-30, adopting the
      FY2022 annual budget and approve the certified tax rate.

7.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said that staff had been working towards this item
      for the last five to six months to get the FY2022 budget presented to the
      Council. There were two components to the agenda item.

      The first component was the certified tax rate. The equalized rate was
      published by the tax commission the morning of the meeting. The equalized
      rate was 0.001141. There was no increase in the equalized rate. The only
      increase was because of growth. It would generate about $8 million in
      property taxes, including the debt service for the general obligation bond. The
      revenue generated from this was already incorporated into the FY2022
      budget.

      Before addressing the second part of the item, the proposed FY2022 budget,
      Mr. Wylie gave Jared Zacharias credit for putting the entire document together.
      Last year when he put the budget together, the Finance Department submitted
      it to the National Governments Finance Office Association, and Mr. Zacharias
      was awarded the distinguished budget award for last year’s budget document.

      Mr. Wylie continued that the Council had already approved the tentative
      budget back in May. The only changes between the tentative budget and the
      final budget were the capital projects that were presented previously in the re-
      opened budget. Taking the assumption that they would be approved tonight,
      they were included in the final document. He said that staff has 30 days to
      finalize any fine-tuning in the document before it was submitted to the State.

7.2   Councilmember Roberts asked how the National Governments Finance Office
      Association picked the winner.

      Mr. Wylie said that cities have to hit certain checkboxes.

7.3   Councilmember Green clarified if they were voting on the certified tax rate or
      if they were voting to adopt the FY2022 budget.

                                                                         Page 25 of 33
      Mr. Wylie said they were adopting both things: the certified tax rate from the
      Tax Commission and the budget that includes those tax rate revenues.

      Councilmember Green said that he needed to change the amendment except
      for the prosecution contract because he had a conflict there.

      Mr. Dobbins clarified that Councilmember Green wanted to vote on everything
      in the budget and the tax rate except for the one piece of the budget that
      related to the prosecutor's budget because of a conflict of interest. Mr.
      Dobbins said that they could vote on everything except that, but then the rest
      of the Council would have to vote separately on that particular line item.

7.4   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-30, adopting the
      FY2022 annual budget and approving the certified tax rate except for the
      prosecution contract. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.6   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve the prosecution contract of the
      budget. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.7   Councilmember Green recused himself. A roll call vote of the remaining
      Council was taken and Councilmembers Lowery, Lowry, Roberts and Vawdrey,
      voted in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-32, approve Resolution #21-32, approving the
      Traverse Ridge Special Service District Certified Tax Rate for 2021.

8.1   Mr. Wylie said that the Council was the governing board for the Traverse Ridge
      Special Service District (TRSSD) and could approve its certified tax rate. Staff
      had received the tax rate of 0.000447 the morning of the meeting. He said that
      this would generate about $251,000 in revenue for the district in FY2022
      compared to about $240,000 in FY2021. Although this was about an 11%
      increase it was comparable to the growth occurring in the area.




                                                                         Page 26 of 33
8.2    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #21-32, approving the
       Traverse Ridge Special Service District Certified Tax Rate for 2021.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

8.3    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Action Item: Resolution #21-28, Draper City Fraud Risk Assessment FY2021.

9.1    Mr. Wylie said that just as in the previous year, the State Auditor’s Office
       required that cities do a fraud risk assessment and present it to the Council.
       He said that he had reviewed the assessment with staff and Mr. Dobbins to go
       through the scoring. The City met basic requirements: separation of duties,
       appropriate policies, etc. The two things the City did not qualify for were
       having all governing body members complete the State Auditor’s Offices and
       not having a formal internal audit function. Draper still scores a 355 out of 395
       putting them in the low-risk category.

9.2    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve                    Resolution    #21-28.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.3    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Limited- Service Alcohol License
       for Side of Aloha LLC

10.1   Travis DeJong, Planner, said that a limited-service alcohol license for Side of
       Aloha LLC had been approved a couple of years ago, but the business failed to
       get its alcohol license from the state. He outlined that those seeking an alcohol
       license had to be 300’ away from any community entrance based on
       pedestrian travel and not within 200’ of a community entrance measured by a
       straight line. The businesses met both requirements. He also noted that
       Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) states that the City cannot put a limitation
       on the number of alcohol licenses it approves.

10.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so            Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

                                                                          Page 27 of 33
10.3   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Local Consent for a Limited-
       Service Alcohol License for Side of Aloha, LLC. Councilmember F. Lowry
       seconded the motion.

10.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

11.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1493, adopting Ordinance #1493, amending Title 3
       and 9 regarding changes to the City's current boards, committees, and
       commissions a/k/a subordinate bodies.

11.1   Mike Barker, City Attorney, said this was the second part of the amendment to
       Chapter 3-1 of DCMC. He reminded that the process was started in April by
       amending 3-1-150 to expand the scope of subordinate bodies, 3-1-160
       clarifying rules for committees, and 3-1-180 that addressed the Historic
       Preservation Committee. Today, the Council would do five different things.

       First, they would create Chapter 3-5 and move code related to subordinate
       bodies from Chapter 3-1 to the new chapter. Mr. Barker said that 3-1 was an
       amalgamation of City officers and subordinate bodies. By creating the
       separation, they would be internally consistent.

       Next, they would move the provisions regarding Appeals and Variance Hearing
       Office to Title 9 to be with the other provisions about the Appeal and Variance
       Officer in the City’s land-use code.

       They would also clarify the general rules for all committees: committees have
       up to 11 members; the mayor appoints a vice-chair for a two-year term; the
       mayor may remove committee members and his/her/their sole discretion;
       members with three unexcused absences in 12 months are subject to removal;
       five members constitute a quorum; and added electronic meeting provisions
       consistent with the Open and Public Meeting Act (OPMA).

       In addition, the City would adopt common naming protocols to limit
       subordinate bodies' names to just committees and commissions.
       Commissions have some sort of authority to bind the City. These entities


                                                                         Page 28 of 33
       included the     Planning   Commission     and   the   Historic   Preservation
       Commissions.

       Lastly, staff moved over the Historic Preservation Commission, Emergency
       Preparedness Committee, and the Audit Committee intact to Chapter 3-5 for a
       variety of reasons. The Historic Preservation Commission had an extensive
       piece of code that needed some time and review to make appropriate
       changes. It did not fit into the timeframe of the current proposal. The
       Emergency Preparedness Committee was moved because it had unique
       characteristics regarding the membership of the committee. The goal of this
       committee was to get a wide variety of input from the community, so some
       members were appointed from various outside agencies.            The Audit
       Committee was left intact as a three-person committee because it was based
       on direction from the Auditor’s Office.

       Mr. Barker said that staff anticipated the third round of amendments as they
       continued to look at the Historic Preservation Commission to ensure that it
       was operating as the Council would like and redefine its mission. He presented
       a summary of all the changes and noted that some committees were being
       repealed that had been inactive for years to streamline the code. If in the
       future the Council wanted to reconstitute the committee it was within their
       power to do so.

11.2   Councilmember Vawdrey said that under section 3-5-020, the general rules for
       committees, she thought that a line should be added that a committee
       member would take minutes of the meeting. She said that she felt that most
       committees took meeting minutes, but she did not think that it was
       appropriate for staff members to take the time to do the minutes. She also
       thought that a part should be added that at the end of a committee member’s
       term, a committee member may reapply by filling out an application and going
       through the process of consideration along with other applicants. This would
       ensure that after a member served their term, they were not automatically
       renewed.

       Councilmember F. Lowry asked if a committee member did not fill out an
       application, or if they missed a deadline if that would prevent them from being
       appointed. He asked if there would be a deadline for the reappointments.


                                                                         Page 29 of 33
       Councilmember Vawdrey said that she thought that a member would be
       notified that their term was up and that they could choose to reapply.

       Councilmember Roberts said that he thought that some sort of mechanism
       that forced turnover was necessary. He originally thought that term limits
       could serve that function. Barring term limits, he liked the idea of a re-
       application process and create some competition for the seats.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that she was supportive of the re-application
       process. She felt that it was the fairest way forward.

11.3   Councilmember Vawdrey asked the Council what they thought about requiring
       that a committee member take the minutes.

       Councilmember T. Lowery asked how this was currently done.

       Councilmember Vawdrey said that for most of the committees, the minutes
       were taken by a committee member, but some have an attending staff
       member take them. She felt that the committee members should have this as
       a job. The staff did not need to use their time to do this.

       Councilmember F. Lowry said that he didn’t have an issue with that.

       Councilmember Green said that he was fully supportive of everything
       Councilmember Vawdrey proposed.

       Mr. Barker asked if those changes could be included in the third round of
       amendments. He said that he was worried that he could not provide any
       substantive language for the Council to vote on tonight. Because of this, they
       would have to delay this action item until the July meeting. He felt that if the
       Council passed this tonight, the staff could bring back some general bylaws in
       the third round of amendments in July. He said that state law required that
       the language be present for the Council to vote on it.

       Councilmember F. Lowry said that as a general rule, a quorum of five should
       not be an issue. However, there were a few committees that might be on the
       edge of meeting that quorum.


                                                                          Page 30 of 33
       Mr. Dobbins said that the thinking behind expanding the committees to have
       11 members, as opposed to seven, should make it easier to meet the five-
       person quorum, especially as the Council was reinforcing the need for
       attendance.

       Councilmember F. Lowry asked if this would also allow for subcommittees to
       meet without needing to hold a public meeting.

       Mr. Dobbins said that was correct. Staff felt that this provided an appropriate
       amount of flexibility.

       Councilmember Vawdrey asked if it was outlined in the document that if
       someone attended online that they did not contribute to the quorum count.
       She asked if someone had to be at the meeting to be a part of the quorum.

       Mr. Barker said no. One of the changes being made was the ability to hold
       electronic meetings and include electronic participation.

       Councilmember F. Lowry said that he thought that it was important for people
       to be able to call in and be a part of the quorum. He said it would be very
       important for the committees he was working on.

11.4   Councilmember Vawdrey said that clarification was needed in section 3-5-050
       about the Draper Historic Preservation Commission, item c regarding the
       participation of non-residents with the commission.

       Councilmember T. Lowery asked if people were participating in the
       commission that were not Draper residents.

       Councilmember Vawdrey said that there were not now, but that it was allowed
       if they owned historic properties.

       Mr. Dobbins said that back when that language was adopted, the intent was
       that if someone owned a historic structure in Draper, but didn’t live in the City,
       you could still serve on the commission. He agreed that should be clarified.

       Councilmember F. Lowry suggested that the Council approve this as
       presented, but that staff could come back with some amendments.

                                                                           Page 31 of 33
11.5   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance 1493, amending Titles
       3 and 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding subordinate bodies.
       Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

11.6   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

12.0   Recess to a Draper City Redevelopment Agency Meeting

12.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to recess to a Draper City Redevelopment
       Agency Meeting. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

12.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

**     Council/Manager Reports Continued

       Mayor Walker said that he had one council/manager item he wanted to bring
       up. He said that as they are talking about water conservation and creating a
       communication campaign about water, he wanted to make sure that it was
       communicated to residents that the City could not ban fireworks. He said that
       a few residents had commented about wanting the City to be more aggressive
       about talking about conservation and what the City thought they should do.
       He said that a lot of cities that have City systems had put restrictions out, but
       Draper did not control the utility so couldn’t.

       Mr. Dobbins said that they were holding a press conference at 11:00 a.m. at
       the Little Valley Instructional Trails with Senator Romney and Representative
       John Curtis to talk about wildland fires and some legislation they were
       proposing. He wanted the Council to know that they were welcome to attend.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought that the resident who spoke
       during the public comment period ran all of the emergency communication
       for SunCrest. She said that she thought it would be nice if staff reached out to
       him and gave him information about the wildlands team that can go out to do
       the debris removal and fire risk assessment. He lives in the Maple Hollow
       neighborhood that was threatened by several fires last year.

                                                                          Page 32 of 33
13.0   Adjournment

13.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to adjourn the meeting.        Councilmember
       Roberts seconded the motion.

13.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

13.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:08 p.m.




                                                                       Page 33 of 33
