Draft minutes 8/12/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, AUGUST 12, 2021 IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:         Chairperson Andrew Adams, Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker
                       Commissioners Mary Squire, Gary Ogden, and John Van Hoff, Alternate
                       Commissioners Susan Nixon and Tab Bingham

ABSENT:                Commissioner Lisa Fowler and Alternate Commissioner DeLaina Tonks

STAFF PRESENT:         Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Amie Salazar, Todd
                       Draper, Maryann Pickering and Travis Van Ekelenburg

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for July 8, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for July 8, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Draper Wingate Hotel Site Plan Approval Extension (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Alan Summerhays, representing Kristine Ann Properties, for an extension to the
Site Plan Approval of Draper Wingate Hotel, located at 12361 South Minuteman Dr., Application
SPR-797-2020.        Staff    contact     is      Jennifer     Jastremsky,       801.576.6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented. She illustrated the property with land use
designation, zoning map, and a site plan. She stated that the site plan will expire within a year and
the applicant is asking for a six-month extension.

Applicant absent.

Commissioner Susan Nixon mentioned that the extension is due to the price of lumber and
materials.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the extension for the Draper Wingate
Hotel Site Plan as requested by Alan Summerhays representing Kristine Anne Properties,
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 2
application SPR-797-2020, based on the findings and subject to general and specific
conditions as stated and listed in the staff report dated August 4, 2020.

Second: Commissioner Van Hoff

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Advmaker              Home     Occupation      Conditional     Use    Permit
       (Administrative Action)

On request by Priti Hansia approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the R3 zone
located at 376 E. Thornberry Dr. regarding a home business creating metal art sculptures for sale.
Application USE-0049-2021. Staff contact:           Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801.576.6522,
travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, presented, and stated the property is located within a residential
zone. He stated that the applicant makes and sells metal sculptures. He stated that the
commissioners should review the definition of Cottage Business to determine whether it is
appropriate for this situation. He defined Cottage Business. He clarified the size of the home and
the percentage of the house used as a home business. He stated that the applicant is the only
employee and customers do not visit the home. He stated that the business takes place inside the
garage, thus eliminating the garage as a place for parking. He stated that the applicant is deficient
in several areas. He quoted a statement from Fire Marshal Don Buckley. He included the Fire
Marshal’s review and concerns. He stated that Code Enforcement Officer Dave Bernal determined
that the applicant didn’t have a business license or land use approval. He stated that the applicant
applied after the visit from code enforcement.

Chairman Adams asked Mr. Van Ekelenburg whether he was included in the staff who visited the
site.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that the visited the site personally.

Commissioner Squire inquired about the hobby and business space, and how to classify the
difference between the two in any situation.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that the ordinance clearly states the square footage that can be utilized
for business. He stated that it is difficult to differentiate between the business activity and the
hobby activity as they use the same materials and equipment.

Applicant, Joy Dutta with his wife Priti Hansia translating presented. He stated that he understands
the concerns of his neighbors. He stated that it is primarily a hobby. He stated that he is employed
and sells the sculptures on the weekends. He stated that he tries to have proper ventilation in the
garage by keeping the garage door open or moving to the backyard. He stated that he does not
know of any noise complaints from the neighbors as he tries to schedule the noisier activities
during the middle of the day. He stated that there are no industrial chemicals, but he uses water


                                                 2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 3
and vinegar to promote rusting and coloring on the metal. He stated that he does sometimes use
spray paint, but always with proper ventilation as to avoid any fire hazards.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about the process of making the sculptures.

Mr. Dutta illustrated the process he goes through when making a sculpture to sell. He stated that
all activity is either in the garage or in the backyard.

Commissioner Ogden asked about the spraying process.

Mr. Dutta stated that he doesn’t spray continuously as most of the sculptures are rusted and there
is very little spray painting.

Commissioner Squire asked about the Fire Marshal list of items.

Mr. Dutta stated that he takes many precautions to avoid fire hazards. He stated that he has not had
any fire issues so far. He clarified that the welding is electrical and not gas, so there is no open
flame.

Commissioner Squire stated that the commissioners put a lot of weight into what the staff experts
say. She asked about ways to mitigate the fire concerns.

Mr. Dutta stated that he would like to know what the requirements are to keep working safely.

Commissioner Squire stated that the responsibility to find out the requirements falls on the
applicant.

Mr. Dutta stated that he plans to take his business activity to a different location. He asked about
continuing to make metal sculptures in his garage as a hobby.

Commissioner Squire stated that they are currently addressing whether to grant the permit.

Ms. Dutta stated that they had been looking at the city guidelines and trying to adhere to those.
She stated that they will investigate ways to adhere to the fire safety rules as well.

Chairman Adams asked for page 10 of the staff report to be shown on the projector screen. He
stated that this would give them an idea of what they would need to comply with in order to
continue this activity.

Commissioner Squire stated that any and all concerns from the Fire Marshal need to be satisfied.

Chairman Adams stated that item number one is multifaceted. He stated that he appreciates that
the applicant has purchased a warehouse for the project. He stated the concerns that are based on
the city code.

Vice Chairman Hawker inquired about the parking and traffic.


                                                 3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 4

Mr. Dutta stated that the traffic is caused by friends, not by customers.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Leah Chan stated that she lives right across the street. She stated that she understands some of the
concerns with safety measures. She stated that she has never experienced any noise outside of
typical neighborhood levels. She stated that she didn’t even know they had the business. She stated
that she didn’t see any issues or messes in the driveway or front yard. She stated that there are no
limits to how many cars can be parked on the street. She stated that she understands the concerns
for children as she has a five-year-old. She stated that she would like to see the Fire Marshal’s
requirements met.

Brock Vasic stated that he lives just down the street. He stated that the most important thing is
whether the commissioners approve this activity that is meant to be done in an industrial space.

AJ Pepper stated that his degree is in land use planning. He stated that he lives down the road and
something that struck him is the issue with the Fire Marshal’s concerns. He stated that this is not
the type of business that should qualify as a Cottage Business. He stated that some of the equipment
could act like missiles if misused. He stated that it’s a dangerous business.

Ralph Wolferts stated that he received basic training in welding as part of his apprenticeship as a
mechanic. He stated that he is aware of the dangers that welding can present. He stated that he is
concerned about the sizes of the products as they are often more than four feet tall and should
qualify as industrial items.

Mitch Glende stated that he is a neighbor. He stated that he lives down the street and around the
corner, so his experience is going to be different from immediate neighbors. He stated that he got
to know the Hansia family and suspects that, even if they can’t continue sculpting as a business,
they will continue to sculpt as a hobby. He stated that he’s glad to have a process like this in place.
He asked about the process in which the applicant is made aware of things like the Fire Marshal’s
concerns as he couldn’t find anything online or in preparation for the meeting that was available
to the public.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing and called the applicant up again.

Mr. Dutta reiterated that the electrical welding is different from gas welding, and explained the
different types of chemicals that are used. He stated that he has used some chemicals in the past,
but never in the garage. He stated that he no longer uses that chemical and can get rid of it.

Chairman Adams asked about the tank that the Fire Marshal had a concern about.

Mr. Dutta stated that it is still there, but it’s outside and he can get rid of it.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked about the welding equipment and whether it lets off a spark.



                                                     4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 5
Mr. Dutta stated that there has never been a fire of any size.

Vice Chairman Hawker stated that they need to decide the point where a small business and hobby
turns into something that needs a commercial spot. He stated that they often disagree, but the hard
part for him is that he knows neighbors who work in their garage on their cars and even with
welding. He wondered where they draw the line between Mr. Dutta’s rights to make metal art as a
hobby, and even as a business, and the rights of the neighbors. He stated that this isn’t an HOA,
so certain restrictions don’t apply. He stated that commissioner Squire made some good points. He
stated that the applicant isn’t using many chemicals or gases or sprays, and, so long as they operate
within certain hours, he doesn’t see an issue with it. He stated that the street is available to public
parking. He stated that it seems the applicant seems willing to adhere to the rules and alleviate
concerns. He stated that his biggest concern is with the points that the Fire Marshal illustrated.

Commissioner Squire stated that the Fire Marshal’s issues are her biggest concern. She stated that
the parking and garage use is an issue as the report says the garage cannot be taken for business
use, and the applicant is unable to mitigate or satisfy that use. She stated that the very use of the
garage is problematic for a CUP.

Commissioner Hawker asked Mike Barker, City Attorney, whether the conditions were specific to
a CUP or if there was anything that could prohibit them doing exactly what they’re doing for a
hobby.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there could be noise mitigation if it’s a nuisance. She stated that the fire
code has standards for gas usage.

Commissioner Squire stated that this is one of the toughest situations they’ve had. She stated that
the presumption is that home businesses should be allowed.

Commissioner Hawker asked if the difficulty in this situation is due to the location of the business
being in the garage.

Commissioner Van Hoff asked if the square footage includes storage of the materials.

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that it needs to keep a residential character.

Commissioner Ogden stated that if they did approve with conditions, the applicant would have to
adhere to every ordinance and inspection. He stated that the permit would not be granted until all
the conditions were met and satisfied.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the section of code that addresses parking for single family
homes. She stated that the parking and the business occupation are at odds with one another. She
stated that state law requires the land use authority shall approve conditional use if conditions can
be imposed to mitigate the issues.

Commissioner Hawker asked if it was even possible for the applicant to meet all the requirements
for the CUP.


                                                  5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 6

Mr. Van Ekelenburg stated that it would be difficult. He stated that there’s a lot of things they look
for. He stated that this is a tough situation.

Chairman Adams presented the list of hurdles that are in front of the applicant. He suggested
moving to an industrial location and let the business flourish while keeping peace with the
neighbors. He stated that this is a very different situation, but even if they weren’t selling anything,
there would still be some conditions for noise and safety that would apply.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to deny the Conditional Use Permit as requested by
Priti Hansia on behalf of Advmaker LLC, application USE-0049-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated July 26, 2021.

Commissioner Nixon asked whether the applicant could reapply within a certain time limit.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there is no time limit that restricts them from reapplying.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Commissioner Hawker stated that, even if they don’t approve the CUP, the applicant still has the
right to use the garage as a place for a hobby.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of denying the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

4.     Public Hearing: Lot 745 Bellevue Mellor Residence Plat Amendment (Administrative
       Action)

A request by Jim Mellor, property owner, for approval of a plat amendment to adjust a lot line
between Lots 745 and 746 of Bellevue Phase 7B. The request will relocate the shared lot line to
its original location. The properties are located at approximately 797 E. Medina Drive and 13193
S. Sunset Stream Way in the RSD-5-Bellevue (Bellevue Residential Special District) Zone.
Application SUBD-088-2021. Staff contact:                Maryann Pickering, 801.576.6391 or
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner, presented. She stated that this is a plat amendment, but it would only
be a property line adjustment in this instance. She explained the history behind why the property
line was moved from its original placement. She stated that, at this time, the applicant wishes to
return the property line back to its original location. She stated that both properties meet and
comply with code.

Chairman Adams asked whether the applicant is present.

Applicant, Jim Mellor, stated that the goal is to take the property line back to the original lot line
and shape.



                                                   6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 7
Commissioner Hawker asked about the pool.

Mr. Mellor stated that the pool is gone, so there is be nothing inhibiting the lot line.

Chairman Adams disclosed that he shares a neighborhood with the applicant.

Mr. Mellow stated that everything has been approved by the HOA.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Jim Mellor to adjust a lot line between Lots 745 and 746 of Bellevue Phase 7B, Application
SUBD-088-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report
dated August 03, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: Liz June’s Atelier Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit
       (Administrative Action)

On request by Elizabeth Lazaro for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit in the
RA2 zone located at 617 E Stokes Ave. regarding a home business making and selling candles and
soaps. Application: USE-0105-2021; Staff Contact: Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522,
travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.

Travis Van Ekelenburg presented. He stated that the applicant is requesting to make and sell soaps
and candles from the home. He reviewed the zoning designation and the floor plan of the home.
He stated that the homeowner will be the only employee. He stated that there will be no customers
coming to the home as the homeowner will sell wholesale to retailers and online. He stated that
there will be no business vehicles and the home vehicle will not have any business signage. He
stated that the home will retain its appearance as a residential home.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to come down.

Elizabeth Lazaro, applicant, stated that she wants to make soaps and candles for her sister’s
business in California, but there isn’t much to add.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.



                                                  7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 8
Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Elizabeth Lazaro, application USE-0105-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed within the staff report dated July 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Squire

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

6.     Public Hearing: Laketown Speed and Sound Phase 3 Amended Site Plan
       (Administrative Action)

On the request of John Mueller, representing Laketown Speed and Sound, for an Amended Site
Plan for Laketown Speed and Sound Phase 3 located on 0.74 acres of property at 11710 South
State St. Application SPR-410-2018. Staff contact is Jennifer Jastremsky, 801-576-6328,
jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented. She reviewed the land use designation as well
as the zoning. She stated that the request is to place a parking lot on the property and allow for the
parking lot to be used for offsite purposes. She stated that the property will lose a few parking
spots. She stated that they’ve been working with the applicant to bring it into compliance. She
stated that there are a few conditions. She stated that the parking range allowed is 22-36 and the
property would have 25; however, the neighboring parking lot would have 40. She stated that there
have been some parking issues over the years with the adjacent property that would like to utilize
the proposed parking lot.

Vice Chairman Hawker stated that normally big parking lots are not allowed. He asked whether
they are beholden to keep track of the parking spaces if ownership changes.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there is a lease agreement and the term of that lease is 99 years. She
stated that the parking lot for the adjacent business is legal, even though it doesn’t comply with
the current code, because it complies with the code that was in place when it was built.

Commissioner Nixon asked about ADA compliance.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that when the property was built, they were compliant with the ADA
requirements of the time.

Applicant, John Mueller, stated that the land is in use and mitigating a lot of traffic. He stated that
there have been no issues with the land. He stated that he may try to apply for a variance for the
landscaping. He stated that the doctors using the parking lot are very grateful for the additional
parking. He stated that there have been no break-ins or anything of the sort. He stated that the
purpose of the parking is to provide safe employee parking.

Chairman Adams asked if parking lot is completely enclosed and fenced in.



                                                  8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 9
Mr. Mueller stated that it is and they haven’t had any issues with criminal activity.

Commissioner Squire asked about voting on this tonight if the applicant is planning to deviate
from what’s listed in the staff report.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that there is no deviation that the applicant can apply for.

Commissioner Squire clarified whether they should vote on it tonight.

Mr. Mueller stated that there are several places built around the same time as this location that do
not comply with the landscaping code.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the applicant would have a year to be able to come into compliance.

Mr. Mueller agreed.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Squire motioned to approve the offsite parking as requested by John
Mueller representing Laketown Speed and Sound for Laketown Speed and Sound phase 3
amended site plan, application SPR-410-2018, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated August 2, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Motion: Commissioner Van Hoff motioned to approve the amended site plan as requested
by John Mueller representing Laketown Speed and Sound for Laketown Speed and Sound
phase 3 amended site plan, application SPR-410-2018, based on the findings and subject to
the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 2, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

7.     Public Hearing: Lot 16 Alan Point Plat Amendment (Administrative Action)

On request by Jeff Johnson for approval of a Plat Amendment in the RA2 zone located at 815 W
Alan Point Dr. to vacate a wetlands no-build-area in the rear yard. Application: SUBD-0070-2021;
Staff Contact Travis Van Ekelenburg, 801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov.



                                                 9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 10
Mr. Van Ekelenburg presented the land use map and zoning designation. He stated that the
proposed plan is to vacate the wetlands and has provided all the required documentation. He stated
that the wetlands have dried up and they are able to vacate the no-build-area.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to come down.

Applicant, Jeff Johnson, stated that the area is not a wetlands. He stated that he would like to be
able to use his backyard instead of a field of weeds. He stated that this is the first step.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Hawker motioned to approve the plat amendment as requested by
Jeff Johnson for application SUBD-0070-2021 based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the staff report dated June 28, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Squire, Ogden, Van Hoff and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

8.     Public Hearing:       City Initiated Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment
       (Legislative Item)

On the request of Draper City for at Text Amendment to Title 9 of Draper City Municipal Code in
order to amend regulations pertaining to definitions, second kitchens in single-family dwellings,
and accessory dwelling units. This application is known as the City Initiated Accessory Dwelling
Unit Text Amendment. Application: TEXTMAP-0113-2021. Staff Contact: Todd Draper, (801)
576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Todd Draper, Planner, presented. He stated that this is in response to H.B. 82 which was passed
earlier this year. He explained the changes that would be made. He stated that there are additional
definitions being included. He elaborated on second kitchens, D-ADUs, I-ADUs, primary
dwellings, rental dwellings, and owner of record. He presented Section 9-5-210. He explained the
changes made to Chapter 30 in Title 9. He explained the changes made to Chapter 31 in Title 9.

Vice Chairman Hawker inquired about houses that have 3 kitchens in the same home, or rather
having an I-ADU as well as a D-ADU in addition to the main dwelling.

Commissioner Squire asked about secondary kitchens and I-ADUs.

Mr. Draper clarified the code. He stated the conditions for I-ADUs as well as those for D-ADUs.
He explained the development standards for I-ADUs and D-ADUs. He stated that only one ADU
per lot or parcel is permitted.



                                                10
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 11
Commissioner Hawker asked about HOAs.

Mr. Draper stated that the state law provisions prevent HOAs from prohibiting I-ADUs.

Commissioner Hawker asked about separate entrances.

Mr. Draper stated that a separate entrance is not required. He stated that there would need to be
one additional parking space, but nothing that would alter the exterior of the house from looking
like any other house in a residential area.

Commissioner Squire asked about the definition of a second kitchen.

Commissioner Nixon also asked about what qualifies as a kitchen.

Ms. Jastremsky read the code definition of a kitchen.

Mr. Draper stated that there are a few new sections in Chapter 31. He elaborated on these new
sections.

Commissioner Hawker asked about giving mailboxes to ADUs.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that, because I-ADUs are allowed to be rented out, it makes sense for
separate addressing for security and privacy concerns.

Commissioner Hawker asked about how the addressing would work.

Mr. Draper stated that there are some conventions that they try to utilize for addressing. He stated
that there is now a section in Chapter 31 that discusses violations and remedies to listed violations.

Mike Barker, City Attorney, clarified Airbnb’s and short-term rentals. He illustrated what the
ordinance does and does not address.

Ms. Jastremsky clarified what is and isn’t allowed for room rentals.

Commissioner Squire asked about a minimum number of days for the rentals. She asked about
short-term rentals needing a business license.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the current code states that a business license is only required if there
are four or more houses being rented out.

Mr. Draper stated that state law allows a restriction of I-ADUs up to 25% of residential area. He
presented a map that illustrates where I-ADUs should be or shouldn’t be.

Commissioner Hawker asked about HOAs and off-street parking.




                                                 11
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 12
Mr. Draper stated that the map was not built off lot size, but street width. He stated that it illustrates
the areas where the narrow streets could become more congested with on-street parking or
additional vehicles, which would be a typical impact of an ADU.

Commissioner Squire asked about HOA considerations.

Mr. Draper stated that HOAs regulations would not apply.

Commissioner Squire asked about the 25% prohibited area.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the area in question was included in the 25% of residential area.

Commissioner Nixon asked about wide private streets and approval from neighbors.

Mr. Draper stated that they’re not allowed to restrict ADUs based on street width. He stated that
was one factor used in the map creation. He stated that private streets, whether HOA or owners
would have the ability to restrict parking on the street as long as it meets fire code, it would be
allowed.

Ms. Jastremsky requested feedback on the map.

Commissioner Hawker asked about I-ADUs, parking, and larger properties.

Mr. Draper stated that they would reconsider certain areas on the map.

Commissioner Nixon asked about public out-reach.

Mr. Draper stated that they’re looking for public comment and input in this meeting and the city
council meeting. He stated that they will provide information to the public.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that the property must comply with the code.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Josh Christensen stated he and his family and neighbors have been on the receiving end of the
negative impacts of ADUs. He stated that they have mini apartment complexes in the
neighborhood due to some gray area that contractors have exploited. He stated that there are over
200 cars parked on the street. He stated that they would like to recommend limits on ADUs.

Dan Portwood stated that they’re seeing a degradation of the neighborhood. He stated that he’s on
the HOA board. He stated that the roads are too narrow in his neighborhood for all the cars. He
stated that limitations on the ADUs is a very welcome change.

Shon Wettstein stated that he appreciates the guidelines that are being put into place. He stated
that there are often too many cars per house because of the number of rooms being rented out. He



                                                   12
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 13
stated that he has concerns about nonconforming units being grandfathered in. He stated that many
of these houses have an I-ADU and a D-ADU when they shouldn’t be able to have both.

Vickie Christensen stated that the firetrucks have difficulty getting through the street because there
are too many cars. She stated that renters don’t have any care for the neighborhood. She stated that
cars and mailboxes are being broken into. She stated that there are too many cars on the street and
they need the support from the city and the police.

Zach Lambert stated that he lives in the ghetto of Draper. He stated that there are just too many
cars. He stated that there are 6 or 7 cars per house. He stated that there were 28 cars between three
houses. He stated that the firetrucks can’t get through and the snowplow can’t get through. He
stated that by restricting the parking on one street doesn’t fix the issue because it pushes the cars
into the surrounding neighborhoods. He stated that renters don’t take ownership.

Abby Shaha stated that she and her family actually moved when they started having kids because
the old neighborhood wasn’t safe. She stated that she has seen snowplows and firetrucks and
ambulances be unable to move through the streets. She stated that she has been unable to pull her
own car out of the driveway. She stated that she’s been told that, because there were so few
limitations put in place in the beginning, nothing can be done now. She stated that there is more
crime in these areas. She stated that they need to go back and fix what never should have been
allowed.

Nicole Lambert stated that one of the problems is the location of the elementary school with all of
the cars. She stated that it’s dangerous for the kids crossing, and the school buses can’t get through.
She stated that there are people who have found loopholes and exploited them.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Nixon asked about the legality and the nonconformity and grandfathering.

Chairman Adams stated that he appreciates the pink map. He asked about the units that aren’t
owner occupied. He asked about code enforcement.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that it will become a code enforcement issue. She stated that there will have
to be a public awareness campaign to make people aware of the changes. She stated that they will
have to work with everyone to bring them into compliance. She stated that it will have to be done
on a case-by-case basis.

Commissioner Hawker stated that some of these neighborhoods were built in a way that just don’t
accommodate ADUs. He asked why they’re still grandfathering in. He asked about the basements.

Ms. Jastremsky stated that they will have to do it on a case-by-case basis and can’t speak to each
home. She stated that this will be part of the code enforcement issue.

Mr. Barker clarified the legality of grandfathering in something under code. He stated that the
ADUs will need to have been legally established.


                                                  13
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 14

Commissioner Hawker stated that he understands that it is a massive issue.

Mr. Barker stated that they are under an October deadline. He stated that they want it to comply
with state law. He stated that they don’t want to create more loopholes. He stated that they want
to be very thorough.

Chairman Adams stated that the language may change, but the main points will not. He explained
this to the public.

Motion: Commissioner Squire made a motion to send a positive recommendation to City
Council on the Text Amendment as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
Accessory Dwelling Unit Text Amendment application TEXTMAP-0113-2021 based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report dated August 5, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Hawker

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 5-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Hawker, Van Hoff, Ogden, Squire, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

Jennifer Jastremsky stated that Christina Oliver no longer works for the city.

9. Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to adjourn.

Vote: A vote was taken with the Commissioners voting in favor of the motion.

The meeting adjourned 9:06 p.m.




                                                14
