                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          July 9, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: July 22, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP, Planning Manager/Zoning Administrator
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6328, jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov

Re:      K9 Lifeline – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-100-2021
         Applicant:        Heather Beck, representing K9 Lifeline
         Project Location: 986 East Draper Parkway
         Current Zoning: TC (Town Center) Zone
         Acreage:          1.29 Acres (Approximately 56,192ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for the purpose
                           of modifying the existing Conditional Use Permits and altering the
                           outdoor dog areas and parking for a kennel.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
1.29 acres located on the south side of Draper Parkway, at approximately 986 East Draper
Parkway (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned TC. The applicant is requesting to
modify their Conditional Use Permit in order to alter the previously approved permits on
the property. The Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) does not have an Amended
Conditional Use Permit application process, and requires a Conditional Use Permit
application for any amendments to existing permits.

K9 Lifeline has been located within Draper City since 2011. Their campus includes two
buildings. The north building obtained a Conditional Use Permit on June 23, 2011 and the
south building obtained a Conditional Use Permit on May 9, 2019. The business provides
dog boarding, daycare, and training facilities. The business also has a Commercial Permit
for the kennel operations from the Draper City Animal Control. The properties were



K9 Lifeline                                                       App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 1
originally developed in the early 1990’s as manufacturing buildings.



ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Town Center
land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is characterized as
follows:




The property has been assigned the TC zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to DCMC
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the TC zone is to “provide a method for implementing special
provisions found within the general plan and the Draper City conservation area master plan
regarding the establishment and promotion of a historic core area of the community
characterized by stringent design standards for buildings, public spaces, site design and
landscaping with a harmonious mix of commercial uses, limited high density residential uses
and civic areas.” The property abuts the TC zone on the south, west, and east. To the north
is the CC (Community Commercial) and CO1 (Professional Office) zones.




K9 Lifeline                                                       App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                2
Conditional Use Permit. The applicant is looking to modify the exterior portions of the
property (Exhibit E). The property was approved with a single outdoor potty area for the
dogs. This area is located on the north side of the north building and equals about 1,033
square feet. This application seeks to amend the outdoor areas. The applicant has added
two additional outdoor areas on the outside of the south building. The first outdoor area is
on the west side of the south building and equals about 5,443 square feet of area. This
outdoor space will be utilized by adolescent dogs. The second area is located on the north
side of the south building and is roughly 400 square feet in size. It will be utilized by small
dogs and puppies. The applicant did remove two parking spaces to accommodate the 400
square foot area. This areas is located on the northeast corner of the property and directly
adjacent to the neighboring building. There is nothing within the DCMC that addresses how
close an outdoor potty area can be to a property line. There are restrictions for structures
housing animals in residential and agricultural zones which set a distance standard
between the structure and a residential dwelling, but nothing for commercial properties.
Both outdoor areas are fenced in with 6-foot tall vinyl fencing. In addition, the applicant has
added bamboo fencing along the existing chain link fence adjacent to the TRAX line to
create a visual barrier.

The applicant has stated the outdoor potty areas are cleaned up immediately of feces. The
feces is placed in lined garbage bag with heavy duty garbage bags. The garbage bags are
securely closed and taken to the dumpster 1-2 times per day. In addition, the outdoor potty
areas are sprayed down once a day.

The site has 34 parking stalls. This number accounts for the two spaces removed to create
the 400 square foot outdoor area. This also includes some parallel parking spaces along
the north building. When the original Conditional Use Permits were reviewed by the City,
the site contained 44 parking stalls. The applicant has restriped some stalls along the north
building and changed some of them from 90-degree angle parking stalls to parallel spaces.
This was done as a result of an ongoing access easement dispute with the adjacent
property owner. The access easement dispute is a private issue between the two property
owners. This Conditional Use Permit takes into account the reduction in parking.

The DCMC Section 9-25-100 requires kennels to have a parking ratio of 1 space per 4 dogs.
With the 34 spaces on site, the business is allowed 136 dogs at any one time. When taking
into account the 10%+/- parking ratio found in DCMC Section 9-25-090(A), 34 parking stalls
is in the -10% range for 153 dogs at any one time. The applicant has stated their maximum
occupancy based on the building square footage is 190 dogs. The applicant stated they are
typically around 120-130 dogs. The parking requirements for a 190 dogs is 48 parking stalls,
or a 10%+/- range of 43- 52 stalls. A condition of approval has been included limiting the
number of dogs on site based on the number of parking spaces on the property. An
additional condition allows for a reconfiguration of the parking spaces within the existing
asphalt area, and subject to meeting parking stall dimension and drive aisle widths, if the
applicant is able to reevaluate the parking along the north building at a future date.



K9 Lifeline                                                        App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 3
The applicant has submitted a detailed explanation of the business operations and the new
outdoor areas (Exhibit F). There are a couple changes to the business plan from when the
original Conditional Use Permit was issued in 2011. Business hours have been expanded.
These are the hours that customers can come to the business. As a kennel with boarding
facilities, there are employees and animals on the premise at all times. The initial
Conditional Use Permit limited the business hours to 7:30 am to 7:30 pm Monday through
Saturday, and 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm on Sunday. The applicant has stated the business hours
are currently 7:00 am to 9:00 pm Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 7:00 pm on Saturday,
and 9:00 am to 6:00 pm on Sunday. Staff has included a condition of approval which does
not restrict the hours of operation. Typically the City has not restricted hours of operation
for businesses located within commercial zoning districts. With no residential buildings
adjacent to the property, a restriction on hours does not make sense. The 2011 Conditional
Use Permit included a condition that the only outdoor activities be the outdoor potty areas.
The applicant has stated that they have some outdoor training classes, which work on
handling or advanced training classes that take the dogs on walks along the public sidewalk
to the park or other areas surrounding the business. The TC zone restricts kennels and
states that there will be no outdoor kennels. All kennels associated with boarding are
located within the building. A condition of approval has been included allowing for minimal
outdoor use for training purposes, but continues to prohibit outdoor kennels on the
property.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The Planning Commission has approved two previous
Conditional Use Permits on the property for the existing business. The approvals included
the below conditions of approval:

June 23, 2011 Planning Commission Approval:

         1.       That all City standards, requirements, and ordinances are adhered to,
                  especially those contained in Section 9-5-080(e) of the Draper City Municipal
                  Code.
         2.       That the applicant satisfies all concerns of the Engineering Department,
                  especially those stated in this report.
         3.       That prior to issuance of a business license, the applicant satisfies all
                  concerns of the Fire Department, as stated in this report.
         4.       That the only outdoor activity associated with the kennel will involve a 15x50
                  foot potty break area for the dogs.
         5.       That the hours of operation are limited to 7:30 am to 7:30 pm Monday
                  through Saturday, and 4:00 pm to 6:00 pm on Sunday.
         6.       That all parking associated with the kennel is accommodated on private
                  property, that all parking be properly striped, that ADA stalls are marked
                  according to the building official’s recommendation, and that these items
                  shall be completed within 90 days of occupancy.



K9 Lifeline                                                          App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   4
         7.       That, as recommended by Draper City Animal Control Services, the applicant
                  provides for the building to be ventilated and soundproofed, and
                  demonstrates an adequate method for recording rabies vaccinations for
                  each dog. These items must be completed prior to issuance of a business
                  license.
         8.       That prior to issuance of a business license, the applicant has a licensed
                  architect reconcile the building to a B occupancy, as required by the Building
                  Department.
         9.       That K9 Lifeline receives and maintains a valid Draper City Business License
                  throughout its operation.

May 9, 2019 Planning Commission Approval:

         1.       That all City standards, requirements, and ordinances are adhered to,
                  especially those contained in Section 9-5-080(E) and Table 9-11-1 of the
                  Draper City Municipal Code.
         2.       That the applicant satisfies all concerns of the Engineering Department,
                  especially those stated in Exhibit A of this report.
         3.       That prior to issuance of a business license, the applicant satisfies all
                  concerns of the Fire Department, as stated in Exhibit A of this report.
         4.       That the only outdoor activity associated with the expanded portion of the
                  kennel will involve a 2,100 square foot potty break area for the dogs.
         5.       That all dogs will be on leash when using the potty area.
         6.       That the outdoor potty break area be cleaned daily and feces is picked up
                  immediately in order to reduce odor.
         7.       That all parking associated with the kennel is accommodated on private
                  property.
         8.       That the applicant provides for the building to be ventilated and
                  soundproofed.
         9.       That K9 Lifeline maintains a valid Draper City Business License throughout its
                  operation.
         10.      That the owner of K9 Lifeline modifies her business license to reflect her
                  expansion into the second building.
         11.      That unless there is substantial action under the conditional use permit
                  within a maximum period of one year from the date of its issuance, said
                  permit shall expire and shall have no further force or effect.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:




K9 Lifeline                                                          App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   5
         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
             conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
             the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions may
             include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping,
             screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to the purposes
             and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the
             motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions, or
             denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance with
             applicable standards:
               a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                   requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
               b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
               c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                   development in the vicinity;
               d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
               f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities, transportation
                   access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping, open
                   space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
               g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
                   such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
                   and
               h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of the
                   city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
             needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public



K9 Lifeline                                                             App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     6
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Animal Control Division Review. The Draper City Animal Control Division has completed their
review of the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can
be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, Animal Control, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the
                  development of the site and operation of the business.
         2.       The number of dogs at any one time shall be limited based on the available
                  parking for the business, at a ratio of 1 parking space per 4 animals as
                  outlined in DCMC Section 9-25-090(A) and 9-25-100 Table 9-25-1.
         3.       Parking space configuration may be modified within the boundaries of the
                  existing asphalt, subject to complying the space and drive aisle size
                  standards found within DCMC Section 9-25-100 Table 9-25-2. Creation of new
                  paved areas on site shall require additional review.
         4.       There shall be no restriction on the hours of business operations.
         5.       That the outdoor potty break areas consist of three separate areas. One shall
                  serve the north building, and two shall serve the south building. The total
                  outdoor area equals roughly 6,900 square feet in size.
         6.       Outdoor potty break areas shall be fully fenced in.



K9 Lifeline                                                         App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   7
         7.       That the outdoor potty break area be cleaned daily and feces is picked up
                  immediately in order to reduce odor and to avoid waste being carried offsite
                  by storm runoff or other means.
         8.       Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
                  twenty-six (26) feet and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches
                  shall be required.
         9.       Due to the number of dogs, pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to
                  avoid impacts to 12300 South (Draper Parkway) by ingress or egress of
                  vehicles.
         10.      The outdoor areas may be utilized for limited outdoor training activities. No
                  outdoor kennels are allowed.
         11.      That the applicant permit inspections of the premises by Draper City Animal
                  Control upon reasonable notice.
         12.      That the applicant comply with the conditions of approval on the Conditional
                  Use Permits approved by the Planning Commission on June 23, 2011 and
                  May 9, 2019, except as modified with this application.
         13.      That unless there is substantial action under the conditional use permit
                  within a maximum period of one year from the date of its issuance, said
                  permit shall expire and shall have no further force or effect.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable conditions can be imposed to substantially mitigate reasonably
                  anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to substantially mitigate
                  reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit, as
requested by Heather Beck, representing K9 Lifeline for a kennel, application USE-100-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
July 9, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit,
as requested by Heather Beck, representing K9 Lifeline for a kennel, application USE-100-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
July 9, 2021 and as modified by the findings and conditions below:




K9 Lifeline                                                          App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   8
         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit, as requested
by Heather Beck, representing K9 Lifeline for a kennel, application USE-100-2021, based on
the findings listed in the Staff Report dated July 9, 2021.




K9 Lifeline                                                     App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 9
                   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development Review
Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject for this staff
report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be appropriate for
review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.



                                                                                             Digitally signed by Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                             DN: C=US,
                                                                                             E=jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov,
                                                                       Jennifer Jastremsky   O=Planning Division, OU=Draper City,

__________________________________                                     __________________________________
                                                                                             CN=Jennifer Jastremsky
                                                                                             Date: 2021.07.13 16:51:19-06'00'



Draper City Public Works Department                                    Draper City Planning Division


                       Digitally signed by Don Buckley


                                                                       Mike Barker
                       DN: C=US, E=don.buckley@draper.ut.us,                             Digitally signed by Mike Barker
Don Buckley            O=Draper City Fire Department, OU=Fire

__________________________________
                       Marshal, CN=Don Buckley
                       Date: 2021.07.13 17:19:17-06'00'
                                                                                         Date: 2021.07.14 09:35:27
                                                                       __________________________________
                                                                                         -06'00'


Draper City Fire Department                                            Draper City Legal Counsel


                       Digitally signed by Keith Collier
                       DN: C=US, E=keith.collier@draperutah.gov,

Keith Collier          O=Draper City, OU=Building Official,


__________________________________
                       CN=Keith Collier
                       Date: 2021.07.15 06:48:51-06'00'



Draper City Building Division




K9 Lifeline                                                                            App. # USE-100-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                                     9
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The property does not contain enough parking for the maximum occupancy
              of dogs allowed within the buildings. A condition of approval has been
              included limiting the number of dogs at any one time at the facility based on
              the availability of parking.
       2.     Based on the inspection of Animal Control it appears the clean-up policies for
              the outdoor potty areas are sufficient.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.     The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and
              other utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted. The
              number of trips generated by employees and customers will not have an impact
              to the area due to the connectivity of Draper Parkway (12300 South) to the site.
              The proposed property layout appears to provide adequate off-street drop-off
              and pick-up area. Given the represented use and nature of operation, the use is
              not anticipated to generate a significant impact to traffic, water, sewer, or other
              utilities;
              a. Access is proposed from Draper Parkway approximately 150 feet from the UTA
                   Trax rail lines. The existing access to the existing buildings meets the intent of
                   the access management of the Master Transportation Plan adopted by the
                   city. Dog pick-up and drop-off is staggered, per the applicant. Due to the
                   number of dogs that is being requested to be onsite, approximately 190 dogs,
                   this traffic volume is required to be staggered to avoid impacts to 12300 South
                   (Draper Parkway) by ingress or egress of vehicles.
              b. The existing buildings currently have utility connects sufficient to serve the
                   proposed use.
              c. The applicant has indicated that the surface of some adjacent land
                   accommodates outdoor usage from the animals, as part of the proposed use.
                   This location is adequately separated from the existing public storm drainage
                   system to reduce impacted water quality discharge. Outdoor dog waste must
                   be collected and disposed of in a legal and regular interval to avoid waste being
                   carried offsite by storm runoff or other means.
       2.      The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general
               welfare of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the
               property or improvements in the vicinity.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet and a minimum height of thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches
               shall be required. The road must be designed and maintained to support the
               imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The surface shall be able to provide
               all weather driving capabilities. The road shall have an inside turning radius
               of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a maximum grade of 10%. Grades
               may be checked prior to building permits being issued.
       2.      Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
               address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
               property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.



Animal Control Division Review.

       1.       See attached comments for detailed inspection results.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
              1,033 sf




                         400.03 sf




5,454.21 sf
       EXHIBIT F
APPLICANT QUESTIONAIRE
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                           Heather Beck <heatherbeckk9@gmail.com>
Sent:                           Friday, July 2, 2021 2:18 PM
To:                             Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                        Re: K9 CUP Review


Sorry, my mind is still tired from my trip, thought I missed the deadline, but just realized I don't know what day
it is, lol. So July 22 will work great!

Here are the responses to your questions and concerns.

1. I just recently leaglly changed my last name from Beck to Hunt, but still go by Heather Beck
professionally. I can provide my marriage certificate to resolve this question. Let me know if you would like
some other form of proof that I am the legal owner.

2. Total number of dogs that we can safely provide for is 190 between both buildings. Dogs are dropped off and
picked up at very specific times and the average time a client is in our parking is very limited, under 5 mins.

3. The smaller yard on the north of the building is used to potty small dogs and puppies that all go directly from
their indoor social area to the yard at the same time Their scheduled potty times are 7:00am, 8:00am, 10:30am,
12:30pm, 3:00pm, 7:00pm, 8:30pm. These last about 5-10mins before they are back into their social room or
kennels. The larger yard on the west side of the building is for our "Party Animals'' ; these are our bigger
adolescent dogs. They also move outside together as a group and this yard is directly connected to
their kennel room and indoor social area. Their schedule is 7:00am, 10:30am, 12:30pm, 3:00pm, 7:00pm and
8:45pm. Weather permitting we will have them in the outside area for social from 7am-10:30am. Our cleaning
regimen for these areas include immediately picking up feces and placing it in a lined garbage can with heavy
duty garbage bags, bags that are securely closed are taken to the dumpster 1-2 times a day depending on how
many dogs are in the area. Cleaning in both areas happens every day from 11-12pm while the dogs are resting
in their kennels. We use Waxi products safe for animals and the environment to spray down the yards.

4. We run a training based facility and use several mitigation factors to keep barking down. In the kennel rooms
and social rooms we have sound proofing to dampen sound. Mostly the dogs are out in their social groups
where barking is not allowed or safe, so it is actually very quiet in those areas most of the day and
evenings. Dogs barking when they are kenneled we take several steps to keep them calm and comfortable
including specifically designing and installing custom built kennels that have visual barriers on the sides and
lower fronts, also they are only 4ft tall to limit dogs jumping up and circling, we also cover kennels with
blankets, use bark collars and use some of our training methods to help keep the dogs quite. We prefer a
calm, quiet and safe atmosphere.

5. We use outdoor space, like the parking lot and off property local trails and sidewalks to take dogs from the
building on walks that have signed up for our VIP activities or are here for training. We also use the parking lot
on Sunday mornings for our handling class with clients that have completed training with us which starts inside
then we move outside to do some exercises and head out for a walk, these classes are at 9am-10am for adult
dogs and 10:30am-11:15am for small dogs and puppies. The small dog and puppy class usually just stay inside
the building, but sometimes venture out.




                                                         1
6. We have installed new 6ft vinyl fencing around these areas to create a visual boundary to keep the dogs
safe. In the large yard we attached bamboo to the existing chain link fencing to create a visual barrier to the
trax line to not scare the dogs as it goes by.

Hope that answers your questions, please let me know if you need anything else from me and keep me posted
about the meeting time.

Thanks,

Heather Beck
Owner, K9 Lifeline
801-824-1690 cell


On Thu, Jul 1, 2021 at 3:04 PM Jennifer Jastremsky <Jennifer.Jastremsky@draperutah.gov> wrote:

 Heather, attached are the comments from the CUP review. They include the results of the Animal Control
 Inspection. Pay attention to the first few pages. I have some clarifying questions for planning that will need to
 be addressed before I can get you on an agenda. Below are some meeting dates, please let me know what
 works best for you. Thanks –Jen



 July 22nd- to make this meeting date I would need the responses to my questions back by 5pm on Tuesday, July
 6th. That way there is time to review the info and notice for the hearing

 August 12th

 August 26th




                   Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP

                   Planning Manager / Zoning Administrator

                   Community Development Department

                   1020 E. Pioneer Road, Draper, UT 84020

                   Office: 801-576-6328 | jennifer.jastremsky@draperutah.gov |
                   draperutah.gov




 **Please note new email and website**

 DRAPER CITY IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC FROM 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM, MONDAY - FRIDAY.
                                                         2
   EXHIBIT G
PUBLIC COMMENT
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                         Stacy Croninger <dogsndocs@comcast.net>
Sent:                         Wednesday, July 14, 2021 9:15 PM
To:                           Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                      K9 Lifeline in Draper



Hi,

I understand that K9 Lifeline is having to reapply for the conditional use permit. As someone who has
brought our dogs to them for 9 years, I cannot say enough good about them. They not only take care
of my dogs, they love them. One time, our male Basset Hound got sick while we were boarding him.
They were the ones that noticed he was lethargic and contacted us to let us know they were keeping
an eye on him. A few hours later, they contacted us to see if we would okay them taking him to a vet
because they were concerned - and of course we said yes. These wonderful people took our boy to a
vet, got medication for the infection he had, made sure that he took it and put us in touch with the vet
to get the info we needed and settle the bill. How many places that board dogs go to that level of
care?

We have also had our most recent dog go through their puppy training, walk-the-walk activity, and
weekender training. They not only worked with him but with us so that the things they taught him we
would do at home to reinforce that training.

We are so grateful to have them for daycare and boarding for our dogs. To know that our fur babies
are loved and watched over, and to know that they are constantly improving their skills as well as
sharing their knowledge with others to provide well-adjusted dogs and happy family environments is a
credit to who they are.

Lastly, you should know that we drive from Springville to Draper because we love and trust K9
Lifeline. There are places in Utah County we could go - we actually went to one 10 years ago - but no
one has the training and gives the care that K9 Lifeline does. It is well worth the drive for the services
they offer.

Please, please approve their permit request.

Stacy Croninger




                                                    1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          David & Daphne <DavidNDaphne@outlook.com>
Sent:                          Thursday, July 15, 2021 10:12 AM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                       K9 Lifeline Conditional Use Permit



To Whom It May Concern:

Please accept this email as confirmation that we fully support K9 Lifeline's application for a conditional use
permit. We have been faithful customers for nearly 5 years and love everything about this business,
particularly the entire staff. They have always been so accommodating and helpful regarding our dog. In fact, I
recommend them to anyone looking for a boarding or training facility. If they do not get their permit many,
many Draper pet owners will suffer the consequences. We literally trust no one else with our dog and in fact
our dog Roxy would be devastated if she could not go there anymore.

thank you,

David and Daphne Garcia




                                                       1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                           Ryan Gwilliam <ryan@trainwalkpoop.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, July 14, 2021 9:53 AM
To:                             Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                        Support for K9 Lifeline


Jennifer,

I'm writing to support the approval of the conditional use permit for K9 Lifeline. They run a wonderful
organization that is very professional and clean. They bring in some of the best dog trainers in the country to
learn from and train with their staff. This company definitely brings a ton of value to Draper each year.

Sincerely,


Ryan Gwilliam
385-429-0894
www.TrainWalkPoop.com, Emotional Support Humans for your dog. We'll teach your dog to make good
decisions on and off leash.
www.InvisibleFence.com We keep your pets at home and safe like no physical fence can.
www.UtahPaw.com Healthy food for healthy dogs. Filler free, high quality dog food with free home delivery.




                                                         1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                           Andrew Maunder <owner@yourcanineconnection.com>
Sent:                           Wednesday, July 14, 2021 12:06 PM
To:                             Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                        K9 Lifeline, Draper


Dear Jennifer.

My name is Andrew Maunder and I am the owner of Canine Connection in Orem.

It has come to my attention that Draper City is looking to reconsider the conditional permit of services for K9
Lifeline.

K9 Lifeline and particularly their owner, Heather Beck is a pillar in your community. Heather has and her team
have helped literally thousands of dogs over the years, dogs that could have potentially caused your animal
control to become over worked with dog fights and bites.

She gives dogs a safe and structured environment to go daily where they are not roaming the streets, nuisance
barking while their owners are away, or causing destruction.

Heather is a mentor to many, myself included, helping with not only dog training, workshops and seminars but
also aiding with sound business advice and guidance. Heather is an advocate for conducting business in both a
legal and ethical way.

Draper City would be crazy to lose such a phenomenal business by revoking their permit and an incredible
business owner and person in Heather Beck.

Please consider these views while making your final decision.

Kind regards,

Andrew Maunder, CPDT
Owner/Lead Trainer
Canine Connection LLC
385 375 2147
www.yourcanineconnection.com




                                                        1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                          Yvonne Olson <yvonneelizabeth01@gmail.com>
Sent:                          Wednesday, July 14, 2021 5:32 PM
To:                            Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                       K9 Lifeline Conditional Use Permit


I am writing because I am unable to attend the public hearing on the 22nd which will discuss the Conditional
Use permit that K-9 Lifeline has with Draper City.

K-9 has provided a service to our community for many years and they are a very professional, clean and great
group.

As a dog owner, living in Draper and working downtown SLC, having them located at 1020 E. Pioneer Road
has been a huge help for me with being able to quickly drop off my dog for the day and also to utilize them for
boarding.

I have used multiple kennels in and outside of Draper. I have found K-9 to be the cleanest and the staff and
owners to take pride in the services they provide and generally care about their customers, dogs and the
community.

I would like to strongly recommend that the Conditional Use permit continue and allow them to provide their
services in this location for the Draper community.

Thank you.


--
- Yvonne Olson
Cell - 801-440-1094




                                                       1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                             Rachel Smith <victorian_reader@icloud.com>
Sent:                             Wednesday, July 14, 2021 8:52 AM
To:                               Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                          K9 Lifeline


Good morning,

I am a Draper resident and I am writing to support K9 Lifeline in their bid to renew their conditional use permit. K9
Lifeline provides Draper residents access to skilled, knowledgeable trainers who can help our city’s canine population be
well-behaved members of the city. We are lucky to have such an impressive facility here in Draper. They are easily
accessible where they are located. They also provide what I believe to be a community service in the form of their
Saturday Socials which helps our community residents who are unable or unwilling to use our dog parks. Let’s keep K9
lifeline in our community!

Rachel Clara Smith

Sent from my iPad




                                                            1
Jennifer Jastremsky

From:                                  Tara Isaacson <tara@bilaw.net>
Sent:                                  Thursday, July 15, 2021 2:35 PM
To:                                    Jennifer Jastremsky
Subject:                               K9 Lifeline Conditional Use Permit - Hearing July 22nd


Dear Ms. Jastremsky,

I am writing to express my support for K9 Lifeline.

I am a resident of Sandy. I am a criminal defense attorney in Salt Lake City and a dog trainer. I also own two dogs.

Heather Beck and her team at K9Lifeline are like family to me. I take my dogs there every time I leave town. I have
attended multiple workshops put on my Heather where she has shared her dog training expertise. Trainers come from
all over the world to learn from Heather.

I regularly refer dog owners to K9Lifeline because they provide services and training that no one else in the state does.

Her business has an incredible reputation. She employs a great team and contributes to the Draper City community.

I patronize the business at least once a week. Seeing the business lose this permit would be devastating. One of my
dogs has special needs and this facility is the only one I have found who can safely care for her.

I wholeheartedly support K9 Lifeline and ask that you issue the conditional use permit.

Thanks,

Tara

--
Tara Isaacson, Attorney
Bugden & Isaacson, LLC
445 East 200 South, Suite 150
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Office: 801 467 1700
Cell: 801 641 3333

www.bilaw.net

WARNING DISCLAIMER- LEGAL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE
This electronic mail message contains confidential information intended only for the use of the individual or entity named above and
may be protected by the attorney client and/or work product privilege. If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient or the
employee or agent responsible to deliver it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or
copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender
immediately at (801) 467-1700, or by reply email, and delete the original message and any backup copies from your system. Thank
you.




                                                                     1
