                 REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY AGENDA
                 March 16, 2021 at 7:00 PM
                 1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020
                 Council Chambers

7:00 p.m. BUSINESS MEETING
1.    Call to Order

2.    This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to
      Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040.
      I, Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic
      meeting of the Draper City Redevelopment Agency with an anchor
      location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of
      those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby
      authorize the Draper City Redevelopment Agency to conduct
      electronic meetings without an anchor location.
      The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
           Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City
           Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global
           pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
           While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper show
           an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are becoming
           available to a larger segment of the Draper population,
           vigilance is required so that there isn’t a rebound in cases and
           hospitalizations.
           It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of
           attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding
           social distancing in order to comply with state and local
           health department's health orders.
           COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the
           health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
           The City has the technological capability to provide means by
           which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open
           portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.

      To participate, please see the options below:
         Listen through the Draper City Website –
         https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
         Email comments to public.comment@draperutah.gov. These will
         become part of the public record.
         Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request for
         the Zoom meeting ID including your name, address, and phone
         number which you will be calling from to
         public.comment@draperutah.gov.
3.       Motion: Approval of June 16, 2020 Redevelopment Agency
         Meeting Minutes
4.       Public Hearing: Resolution RDA #21-01
         Approve Resolution RDA #21-01 amending the current FY2021
         budget. Staff report by Jared Zacharias
5.       Adjourn to a City Council Meeting
SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of this agenda were
posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website
www.draperutah.gov, the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn,
and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News.

Date Posted: March 12, 2021
                                         Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder
                                         Draper City, State of Utah




In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing
special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson,
City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov, at least 24
hours prior to the meeting.
