MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 2021, IN
THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:               Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                       Fred Lowry (by Zoom), Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott Cooley,
                      City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John Eining,
                      Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett Ogden,
                      Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Community Development
                      Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob
                      Wylie, Finance Director; Jake Sorensen, IT Administrator; Kellie
                      Challburg, Chief of Staff
_____________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2- 1-040.
Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City
Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may
be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct
electronic meetings without an anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

   •   Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council,
       have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
   •   While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging downward trend
       and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper population,
       diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in cases and hospitalizations.
   •   It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and
       to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with applicable
       health orders.
   •   COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare
       of Draper City residents and the public in general.
   •   The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may
       hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public
       hearings.



Study Session
1.0   Interview candidates for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSD)
      Administration Control Board

1.1   Mayor Walker noted that this was the board created by the Council several years ago
      to get input from those who live in the Traverse Ridge Special Service District. He said
      that there were two openings on the board. He continued that the Council set up an
      interview segment for each person that had applied. Each candidate had five minutes
      to make their presentation.

      Councilmember Green said that he had a question for Mr. Barker before they began.
      He said that he represented one of the applicants as an attorney. He asked if that
      prohibited him from all of the applicants or one of the applicants.

      Mr. Barker asked if Councilmember Green stood to gain from participating in the
      process of selecting one of the candidates. Councilmember Green said no, he had
      just represented him as an attorney. Mr. Barker said that it did not seem like
      Councilmember Green had any fiscal benefit tied to the appointment.

      There was no objection by the Council to have Councilmember Green participate in
      the appointment process.

1.2   Doug Pilkington, an applicant, said that he and his wife moved to Draper two years
      ago and settled in SunCrest. They have become tied to the community in a very short
      time. After stepping away from his company, he had more free time than he’d like as
      owning a small business that was operated from his home didn’t occupy a great deal
      of his time. He wanted to give back in a position where he could help the community,
      its constituents, and the overall city itself. He wanted to be able to be a conduit for
      the community as a whole through the provisions that make the community function,
      be they street signs, street lamps, road conditions, and improvements to the city
      overall. He wanted to be in a service role to help with the growth of his community
      through listening to residents’ questions, needs, and concerns. He felt that both his
      business and community fields align to be able to do this in a manner that continues
      to help the TRSSD council have a well-rounded voice for the community. He saw the
      invitation for the opportunity to join and just felt like he wanted to throw his hat in
      the ring.

1.3   Simón Cantarero, an applicant, thanked the Council for their public service and time.
      He said having just completed a term on the board he knew the amount of time public
      service takes. He said that he was before the Council four years ago to be appointed
      to the TRSSD board. He was motivated by a sense of community and service. He has
      lived in the district boundaries since 2004. His family moved to Draper when his wife
      was expecting their first child. They have three children all born and raised in Draper.
      A neighbor had once asked him if he had caught any Draper pride. At first, he looked

                                        Page 2 of 23
      at the neighbor puzzled. Later that summer when his family went to the first Draper
      Days, he remembered walking through a car show and thinking, “This is a cool place
      to live. I like this place.” His family did not have the intention to move. Draper had
      been home for almost 17 years.

      By way of background, Mr. Cantarero was a practicing attorney serving as a corporate
      lawyer for a drilling company. In preparing for today he realized that his company
      had drilled water wells for farmers years ago in Draper, as well as a few public works
      projects. He said that in his job with his company he not only has to look at
      commercial interests and employment issues but also how to be a good corporate
      citizen in the city. He said that they do a lot of work with municipalities throughout
      the state and the western U.S. He said that he understood the roles as members of
      a community, whether they live in it, or work in it, or participate in it. He said that he
      saw his role in the control board as being a limited role. There was direction from the
      resolution 99-82 on what the control board does.

      Since last June, he had worked as the treasurer for the board. He said that he was
      getting the feel and becoming confident in that role. He’d also had the opportunity
      to work alongside some city staff. He said that those had been good working
      relationships that he’d like to see continue. He said that he looked forward to being
      reappointed and continuing to serve his community as he had over the past four
      years.

1.4   Jeff Jones, an applicant, said that he had been a Draper and Suncrest resident for the
      past ten years. He had family who had helped with the founding of Draper,
      particularly the irrigation that helped build up some of the agricultural community.
      He currently worked from home in a technical sales position and did a lot of project
      management and solutions architecture software for companies in the Bay area. He
      looks for opportunities to serve his community, in particular when it comes to the
      TRSSD to share communication so that there was an understanding between both
      parties and actions taken by the local government.

1.5   Mayor Walker thanked the applicants for applying and taking the time for the
      interviews.

2.0   Discussion: Bench Naming Policy – Rhett Ogden

2.1   Rhett Ogden, Parks and Recreation Director, reminded the Council that a year ago a
      policy was drafted about benches. He said that they receive several requests a year
      from people who want to place benches in Draper City facilities such as parks, trails,
      or trailheads. Staff wanted to make sure that they were consistent in their answers.
      He displayed the policy that was drafted a year ago that outlined the purpose of
      benches, the application process, what benches could say, etc. He wanted to discuss

                                        Page 3 of 23
with the Council how staff could take the resolution regarding benches that might be
adopted into an application for people to make requests to place a bench.

He said that memorial bench donation would:
       a. Be based on the corresponding adopted resolution.
       b. Follow the policies as written.
       c. Allow for the public to apply to place a memorial bench in Draper City in
          approved areas.
       d. Make benches going forward standard in look, material, quality, and safety.
       e. Establish rules, guidelines, and application processes for staff to follow to
          work with requesting public.

He proposed the following application process:
      a. Applicants must submit a complete application with the associated $1,000
         fee. This fee would cover all materials, staff time, labor, and concrete. This
         would mean that the applicant was accountable for all the costs and
         donating the bench to the city.
      b. The application would be structured to meet approved resolution policy
         guidelines.
      c. The request would be reviewed by staff to be deemed eligible. Staff would
         determine if the chosen location is feasible for a bench. Factors in this
         decision include, but are not limited to, the need for a bench in the area,
         installation hazards, maintenance issues, location, setting, difficult terrain,
         lack of use, etc.
      d. Constructed benches must be 100% fabricated metal by approved vendors
         and must be similar in construction and design. The applicant would be
         responsible for working with the approved manufacturers to get the
         appropriate wording and symbols on the benches so that the city would
         not be blamed for anything that was printed incorrectly.
      e. Once the bench was ready and approved, it would become property for
         Draper City and staff would work to get the bench installed.
      f. Concrete and other landscaping needs would be determined by staff, not
         the desires of the applicant.
      g. Once the bench was donated it would become the property of Draper.
      h. If the bench was removed, vandalized, broken, or became a safety issue,
         there was no guarantee of lifetime placement or requirement of the city to
         replace it.

Mr. Ogden displayed some different examples of the metal benches. He reiterated
that staff would not be involved with the design. They would only approve what was
wanted before it being made. Then the bench would be given to the city to be
installed at a convenient time for staff.


                                  Page 4 of 23
Councilmember F. Lowry said that he liked this idea. He asked if they would
designate the areas where benches would be, rather than having an applicant come
with a place and staff needing to decide if it was appropriate.

Mr. Ogden said that the resolution was left fairly open. They had tried to identify
specific areas, but there were too many possible exceptions. Because of this, the
policy was written such that if an applicant had a specific place in mind where they
wanted to place the bench, staff would evaluate the facility, if the bench would be
used, make sure that the bench would not detract from the aesthetics, or if there
were already a bunch of benches nearby. If the location picked was a place that staff
thought would be enhanced by a bench and be used, then they would approve the
location.

Councilmember Vawdrey said that she was concerned about how this would work,
but in reading through the policy it seemed as though Mr. Ogden had thought
through the process well so that the city would be in control. She said that benches
should be allowed where they were useful and fit in, but that she didn’t want to
overdo it with the benches.

He agreed. However, because each bench cost a couple of thousand dollars, he felt
like it was beneficial to get some free benches if they would be useful.

Councilmember Vawdrey asked if there were any thoughts on decreasing the text size
on the benches so that they did not look so much like advertisements.

Mr. Ogden said that they could set the rules however they wanted. They could not
allow any pictures or reduce the text size allowed. He said it was wide open to what
would be allowed. Councilmember Vawdrey said that a tasteful plaque seemed more
like what she was thinking.

David Dobbins, City Manager, said that he thought they would get a wide variety if
that was allowed. He suggested that a standard bench be suggested with a standard
size plaque that folks could write on. He felt that the approval of the benches would
be a lot easier to manage if there was a consistent template for what was allowed.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt there was some concern with the policy
being quite so open-ended, especially when someone was doing a bench in memory
of someone. It might put staff in a difficult position of having to say no to a personal
image that might not be broadly appropriate for a public space. She agreed with
Councilmember Vawdrey that it might be nice to make them more uniform by picking
a certain bench type and being very specific in what would be allowed on the bench
such as a small five by seven plaque that could go on the rear of the bench for
someone’s dedication.

                                  Page 5 of 23
      Mr. Ogden said that regarding plaques he agreed with the Council. However, staff
      would like to eliminate anything affixed to the bench because the problem with
      plaques was that they come loose, the bolts come out, or the corners start to peel.
      That was the benefit of these engraved metal benches.

2.2   Councilmember Green asked if there were no First Amendment issues on the
      restriction of content. They could create the form. Mr. Barker said that he did not
      think that the benches could be considered as signs. He said that if the city was
      opening the forum, they could set the rules because it would not be considered a
      traditional public forum. One could even argue that it was City speech. He felt that
      there were reasonable time, manner, and place constraints that could be put on the
      benches. He had researched the issue a couple of years ago. He said that it wouldn’t
      hurt for legal to look again and update that research to make sure it was in alignment
      with the drafted policy. He said that he thought that the Pleasant Grove case that
      went to the supreme court had applications in this matter.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he felt that Councilmember Green’s concern was valid. He said
      that it was one thing for the city to say we think we are on solid legal ground.
      However, it did open the city up for someone wanting to do something that the city
      said no to. Even if they thought they were on solid legal ground, it could result in
      someone challenging the city or wanting to appeal and take the city to court. He said
      that they were opening a door for someone wanting to make that argument.

      Mr. Barker said that spoke to the comments made earlier. If it was standardized what
      the bench could look like, that would go a long way to address those types of
      concerns. This is the bench that we offer. You either like it or you don’t. By allowing
      a lot of creativity and personal input, that’s when there could be problems.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said that instead of attaching a plaque one could sort of
      make a plaque, or something that looked like a plaque that was engraved right in the
      bench. She suggested being more specific. Mr. Ogden said that they could nail down
      what was allowed, restrict the height of the lettering, what could be said, and if an
      image was or was not allowed. Councilmember F. Lowry agreed that it should be
      kept standardized to help avoid any potential conflicts.

      Councilmember Green said that as soon as someone is denied because their bench
      does not meet the standard, that is when they would file a claim. He said that they
      could come up with a standard rule, but as soon as they said that they did not like it,
      then the ACLU would come along. He said it was opening a can that the city might
      win, but might also lose.




                                       Page 6 of 23
      Mr. Barker said that depending on the circumstances if it was a memorial bench, that
      was a hard fight to fight because the optics did not look good. It makes the city look
      as though they are trying to prevent someone from doing something in memory of a
      loved one. There were certainly some landmines to avoid. He said the team would
      do its best to give the Council and staff its best legal advice.

      Councilmember Green asked what would be gained by doing this. Mr. Ogden said a
      bench that the city did not pay for. Some would say a sense of community, the
      opportunity for a resident to express the memory of someone who loved Draper, or
      to honor a community leader. He said that there certainly was an option to continue
      to do what the city did now, purchase its benches and place them where needed.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Ogden had a photo of a city standard bench.
      Mr. Ogden said that the city did not have one. He said that most of the benches
      purchased now had the aluminum backs and seats like what you would picture in a
      ballfield dugout.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the plaque were to go on the back of a bench like
      those proposed, the worry of it cutting someone would be minimized. Mr. Ogden
      said you would have to worry about the bolts, or whatever attached the plaque
      appearing on the front side of the bench.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the plaque could not just be welded to the bench.
      She said that she would like to see what Mr. Ogden proposed as the city standard
      bench and what plaque could be affixed to the back of it if it was appropriate legally.

2.3   Councilmember Vawdrey asked how many requests a year he gets for benches. Mr.
      Ogden said probably four or five. Councilmember Vawdrey said that she felt like the
      policy made the number of benches a little prohibitive because of the expense
      involved.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember Roberts said that he had an anecdote to share with the chief. He said
      that he had a toddler at home who was two. His favorite word is truck and he loves
      fire trucks. His son was at Smith’s today with his wife and some of the guys from the
      Fire Department were there with their big truck and they played the siren and lights
      for his son and gave him a sticker. It made his son’s day. He wanted to say thanks
      for everything the Fire Department does in the community.

      Fire Chief Clint Smith said that was the expectation of firefighters, to be engaged with
      people when they are out in the community. He thanked Councilmember Roberts for


                                        Page 7 of 23
      reporting back. He said that it sounded like Councilmember Roberts had a smart kid
      on his hands.

3.2   Councilmember Green said that he brought up an issue with Mr. Dobbins regarding
      trying to keep people who work for the city in the community so that they don’t have
      to live so far away. With the budget season coming up, he wanted to look at if there
      was a way to do differential pay. If someone was a city employee and made below
      80-percent Area Median Income (AMI) and wanted to live in Draper, that there would
      be a differential pay. He said that the Army did this based on where someone lived.
      He was not saying that it was a great idea, but it was something he wanted to explore
      to try and keep employees in Draper through some type of incentive.

3.3   Fire Chief Clint Smith made the Council aware that over the last couple of weeks the
      department had the unique opportunity of doing some training in what used to be
      the Wheatfield subdivision. He said that finding structures scheduled for demolition
      like these and being able to go in and train in them was rare and did not come along
      often. He said that seven new individuals in the department’s recruit training process
      had been able to come out as part of their Recruit Training Academy to train in those
      structures as well. This has allowed for live fire training exercises. He wanted the
      Council to know that they will be conducting those live fire training exercises
      throughout the remainder of the week on Thursday, Saturday, and Sunday. He said
      it was an opportunity for the Council to see that live training. He mostly just wanted
      the Council to be aware that he had been working with Communications to make sure
      that residents knew about the fires so that residents were aware of the training. He
      said that they did have the approval of the Department of Environmental Air Quality
      to do the live burns. Generally, a department was allowed the opportunity to burn
      up to two structures a year, provided that the air quality conditions would support
      that. Because they were doing the training with multiple agencies in the valley, they
      had approved to burn up to four structures. He said that it was not anticipated that
      the structures would be fully burned to the ground, but where there would be live
      fires to practice doing search and rescue and hose evolutions to sharpen skills for
      low-frequency type events, but that comes with a lot of danger.

3.4   Mayor Walker said that he and Mr. Dobbins have lunch with leaders from Lehi from
      time to time. They had the chance to talk to Mayor Johnson and their City Manager
      yesterday. They were talking about fiber after Utopia came and made a presentation.
      They had reached the same conclusions Draper had about it: why should they take
      all the risk and not have any of the rewards. What Lehi decided was to create their
      own fiber utility. They did a survey and study and were ready to bond and build a
      structure tapping into UDOT’s fiber backbone. He thought that was something the
      Council might be interested in looking into. He said they would not be doing it for
      someone else, but would become the fiber providing utility taking on the risk, but also
      getting the reward. Lehi was going to share their analysis and technique with Draper.

                                       Page 8 of 23
      They were going to get a bond that the public was in support of. They had enough
      interested subscribers that they thought they could provide it in a way so that the city
      would be the provider of the fiber network. He said Lehi was a little larger than
      Draper but thought they had done a pretty conservative analysis about how to
      provide fiber. He asked if three folks were interested.

      Councilmember T. Lowery concurred. She said that it was interesting. It might be
      something they should reach out to the School Districts about. She thought someone
      had told her that they were planning to run fiber to all of the schools.

      Mayor Walker said that he thought that it was a slick idea of how to do it. He and Mr.
      Dobbins just wanted to look at the idea and bring more information back to the
      Council.

3.5   Mayor Walker said that his other item was that The Point was starting to get a lot of
      momentum. More action was taking place. The following day there would be an open
      house where The Point board was going to present the analysis of the general plan
      going forward with The Point. He said that it was one of the largest developments in
      the county. He wanted to engage the lobbying team a little bit more and focus on
      spending more time on the project. He said that he thought that it would make sense
      for the city’s lobbyists to be able to work with him directly. He said that The Point
      board had approved the formation of a committee that Mayor Walker wanted to
      appoint Mr. Dobbins to. He felt like it would be money well spent to focus more staff
      on the project.

      Councilmember Roberts asked what the major issues would be that these resources
      would be working on. Mayor Walker said just keeping on top of from a political
      perspective was important and being able to make sure it interfaces with what the
      city hopes will happen with transit, public works, etc. He said that he thought it would
      be helpful to have someone dedicated to the political side of things.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he thought it made a lot of sense. He watched the
      rewind of the meeting with the expert task force and had looked at the plans. He said
      that it was pretty impressive and pretty exciting. He said that as much as Draper
      could have an influence over what happens there was important.

      Mayor Walker said that The Point was picking up steam. In addition to approving the
      committee, the board approved some more hiring of employees. The legislature
      appropriated a significant sum to start funding projects. He encouraged the Council
      to attend the open house on Thursday from 2:00-4:00 p.m. He said that the board
      was going to present scenarios that made the most sense, something that was
      business and tech center-based, with entertainment and some housing. There would
      be a period of comment.

                                        Page 9 of 23
Councilmember T. Lowery said that having there be a little bit more supervision on
The Point by lobbyists was a good idea because it could quickly spiral out of the city’s
control. The more eyes and hands on it the better.

Councilmember Roberts asked what the talk was about how to attract or incentivize
research centers or major tenants to anchor the entire project. He asked what that
looked like and what the financing mechanisms were.

Mayor Walker said that Senator Stevenson is on the committee. He had been
involved in the Military Installation Development Authority (MIDA) style of private-
public partnership through Hill Air Force Base. He said that was not necessarily the
model, but they were going to look at elements of that model. Mayor Walker said
that as public officials they have been blamed for this housing crisis. He’d been on
his soapbox before that there was an unlimited height and density zone and yet, the
newest apartment complex in it was just four stories. He had suggested that they
needed to “make it pencil” in this area. They need to create a market. He said that
Councilmember T. Lowery was in one of the working groups. He said that planners
always want to plan parks and open corridors. He thought there would be some of
that but they wanted to steer the development toward tech and big anchor tenants.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that the concern that occurred during the working
group she sat in was that the vision had turned towards being more housing-based
as opposed to business-based. They want to push The Point’s development towards
something that would be more of an economic driver for Draper.

Mayor Walker said that The Point would have housing in it for sure. Part of the
concept was for it to be a new city where everything happened there. He said that
the level of housing would be important, but he wanted to make sure that it was not
just four-story apartment complexes because that was what the current “pencil”
suggested. There still was the housing crisis and if it was fixed they would need to
build up.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there were things that Draper could do to increase
greater representation from Draper. He said that he felt that the more visibility they
could have, the better.

Mayor Walker said they were currently in a good spot. He said that the “getting things
done” group would have Mr. Dobbins on it. That would provide a hands-on grip. He
said he didn’t think that they were that far away from having an anchor tenant. This
was the hottest real estate in the whole country. It was a hot tech market.




                                 Page 10 of 23
Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Proclamation: Honoring Canyons School District teachers Milo Maughan and Clief
      Castleton

2.1   Mayor Walker read the proclamation:

         In recognition of notational achievement and their pursuit of academic
         opportunities for their students in the Canyons District which provides
         educational services for students who live in Draper City as well as the sister cities
         of Midvale, Sandy, and Cottonwood Heights, the Draper City Council presents this
         proclamation in honor of Canyon School District educators Milo Maughan and
         Clief Castleton.

         WHEREAS, teachers touch the future as they inspire the next generation of
         scientists, entrepreneurs, inventors, artists, engineers, and community leaders;

         WHEREAS, Mr. Milo Maughan and Mr. Clief Castleton, who teach at Corner Canyon
         and Hillcrest High Schools, respectively, are fiercely committed to ensuring the
         college- and career-readiness of their students;

         WHEREAS, Mr. Maughan and Mr. Castleton are Canyons District educators of the
         highest caliber in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
         (STEM);

         WHEREAS, the NASA Airborne Astronomy Ambassadors (AAA) program, which was
         created to increase student interest and engagement in STEM-related fields, has
         selected Mr. Maughan and Mr. Castleton to be a part of an elite group of only 30
         educators across the United States to receive specialized training, educational
         equipment, and curriculum in astrophysics and planetary science;

         WHEREAS, the teachers are chosen for the 2021 AAA weeklong immersion
         program also are invited to take a flight into the stratosphere on the Stratospheric
         Observatory for Infrared Astronomy (SOFIA), known as the world’s largest flying
         observatory;

         WHEREAS, upon their return, Mr. Maughan and Mr. Castleton, the only Utah
         teachers to be chosen as 2021 ambassadors, will bring STEM classrooms to life
         with lessons created from their unique experiences with the prestigious AAA
         program;

                                       Page 11 of 23
         WHEREAS, the students in our community will uniquely benefit from Mr.
         Maughan’s and Mr. Castleton’s journeys to study alongside renowned scientists
         using some of the world’s greatest technological tools to investigate the depths of
         space;

         THEREFORE, I Troy Walker, Mayor of Draper City, proclaim the City’s utmost
         appreciation and recognition to Mr. Milo Maughan and Mr. Clief Castleton for their
         dedication to providing our community’s children with a stellar level of hands-on
         and personalized instruction that cannot be replicated with book study alone.

      Mayor Walker told Mr. Maughan that he had known him for a long time and that he
      had grown into a great man and good teacher. He said, “congratulations to you from
      me.” He said that he was going to enjoy riding on the aircraft. Mayor Walker had read
      about it the other night and cannot wait to see his photos and hear about it.

2.2   Councilmember T. Lowery thanked Mr. Maughan so much. She said that she thought
      this was a tremendous opportunity that would benefit Draper’s students so much.

2.3   Mr. Maughan said that it would be an amazing experience that he was looking
      forward to a lot. He said that they don’t have exact dates because of COVID, but they
      were saying that it would be sometime in the fall, September, or November, where
      they would have the week-long experience where they would be able to go on Sophia.
      He said that to be able to bring that experience back to the classroom and convey
      that to his students would enhance the teaching of infrared astronomy so much. He
      was excited to do that and to represent Draper, Corner Canyon High School, and the
      Canyons School District.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   No one was available for public comment, so Mayor Walker closed the public
      comment period.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of February 27, 2021, City Council Retreat Minutes
      b. Approval of March 2, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes
      c. Approval of Resolution #21-11, amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule adding
         a new fee for Master Area Plan or Amendments and a new fee for Zoning
         Verification Letter
      d. Approval of Resolution #21-22, appointing Linda Peterson as Communications
         Director
      e. Acknowledgment of Absence of Council Member Green from the City for Military
         Leave

                                      Page 12 of 23
4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items.          Councilmember
      Vawdrey seconded the motion.

4.2   Councilmember Green thanked the Council for working with him as he went to the
      United States Army judge advocate college. He said that he would have his orders be
      recorded so that it was done lawfully and would report back to Mr. Barker to make
      sure that he could still do his duties.

4.3   Councilmember F. Lowry thanked Councilmember Green for his service to the
      country. He said that the Council wished him safety as he went on to this new
      adventure.

4.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-23, appointing two members to the Administration
      Control Board of the Traverse Ridge Special Service District.

5.1   Mayor Walker noted that there was one person that applied who was unable to
      attend. If the Council wanted an opportunity to keep the item open to be able to
      interview that candidate, the item could roll over to the next council meeting.

5.2   Councilmember Green moved to continue Resolution #21-23, to the April 6, 2021, City
      Council meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

      Councilmember T. Lowery also asked to open up the possibility to submit some
      questions to the City Recorder, in case there were things that they did not get to ask
      tonight that could be sent along to the candidates. Mayor Walker said that the Council
      could do that, or they could request that all of the candidates come back to ask them
      questions. Councilmember T. Lowery said that either way would be fine. She asked
      if there was a preference.

      Mr. Dobbins said that either way would be fine.

      The consensus was to have all of the applicants come back to be available for
      questions.

5.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1481, Shipp Barn (Stokes) Development Agreement
      (Legislative Action), on the request of Nate Shipp for a Development Agreement on

                                      Page 13 of 23
      2.52 acres of property located at approximately 570 E Stokes Avenue to allow a single
      home to be built on the property, with a subdivision in the future for an additional
      three lots.

6.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, planner, explained that the applicant owned property on Stokes
      Avenue. One of the properties fronted Stokes Avenue with the existing home. Also,
      there was some farmland behind it. The properties are currently within the
      residential low-medium land use designation. Both were within the RA2 zoning
      designation that allowed for half-acre lots.

      Before the Council was a Development Agreement request. The applicant ultimately
      proposed to subdivide one lot off of the farm now with access onto Stokes Avenue,
      with a potential future subdivision on the back of the rest of the farm. There were
      both some benefits and deviations to what the applicant was proposing that led to
      the need for a development agreement. Ms. Jastremsky first outlined the proposed
      benefits.

             1. Home Preservation: The existing home on Stokes Avenue shall not be
                demolished during the term of the 25-year agreement, which expires on
                December 31, 2046. The home was built in 1926 and is an older, historic
                bungalow on the lot.

             2. Pasture Preservation: The applicant shall maintain the pasture in its
                current pastoral state until at least December 31, 2028. It would prevent
                the farmland in the back from being developed for seven years. At that
                point, the applicant could come in and do phase two of the development.

             3. Right-of-way Improvements: The applicant shall construct the curb, gutter,
                and sidewalk improvements shown on the master plan on Stokes Avenue.
                The curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be completed to city standards no later
                than October 15, 2021. After acceptance by the city, the curb, gutter, and
                sidewalk shall become the property of the city.

      Ms. Jastremsky then outlined the proposed deviations:

             1. Lot Area: Lot 1 will be allowed to access Stokes Avenue from a 20’ private
                access lane across the north parcel from Lot 1 not being subdivided. The
                20’ private access lane and fire turn around may be counted towards the
                minimum lot size. This is a deviation from Draper City Municipal Code
                (DCMC) Section 9-3-040 lot area definition and table 9-10-3 note 1 which
                prohibits access lanes and private roads from counting towards the
                minimum lot size area.


                                      Page 14 of 23
2. Lot Size and Lot Width: The 20’ private access lane across the north parcel
   from Lot 1 will count towards the minimum lot size of the north parcel, it
   will also be counted in the minimum lot width standard for the parcel. This
   is a deviation from the DCMC Section 9-3-40 lot area definition and 9-10-3
   note 1 which prohibits access lanes and private roads from counting
   towards the minimum lot size area.

3. Remnant Parcels and Accessory Structures: The layout configuration of lots
   2, 3, and 4 are conceptually approved and will be created at a later date
   from lot 1 by the administrative processes in the city’s vested laws. The
   property, which is now what will be lots 2, 3, and 4 shall be allowed to
   remain as a remnant parcel until subdivided in the future. Existing
   accessory structures may remain on the property until the lots are
   subdivided. This is a deviation from DCMC Section 17-5-020(H) which
   prohibits remnant parcels and DCMC Section 9-10-030(B)(2) which
   prohibits accessory dwelling structures without a primary structure.

4. Private Lane Width: When developed, lots 2, 3, and 4 will be allowed to be
   accessed off the 20’ east access lane. The existing private lane will not be
   required to be widened at the time of subdivision, as would normally be
   required under DCMC Section 9-27-150. At no time shall the width of the
   asphalt improvements be less than 20’ wide.

5. Traffic Impact Study: The proposal calls for a new access to Stokes Avenue
   for the proposed lot 1. The existing home on Stokes would continue to
   obtain access to Stokes Avenue from the existing driveway located to the
   east of the home. Because Stokes Avenue is classified as a minor collector,
   the access points are required to be located 200-feet away from each other.
   The proposed new access points would be approximately 50-feet from the
   existing access. The applicant has provided a traffic impact study (TIS)
   analyzing the proposal. The Draper City Engineering Division has reviewed
   the TIS and agrees with the finding of the study that these access points
   would not impact the traffic on Stokes Avenue.

6. Road Dedication-Lot Size: The proposed dedication and right-of-way
   improvement area are currently counted in the acreage of the parcel which
   contains the existing home. Once the dedication takes place, the parcel
   will be deficient in acreage. This would be a deviation from DCMC Table 9-
   10-3.

7. Changes in language: The proposed changes to the development could be
   seen in exhibit D. The exhibit referenced lot 1 instead of the front parcel.
   This language would be changed for accuracy.

                         Page 15 of 23
      Ms. Jastremsky returned to the concept plan after outlining the proposed benefits and
      deviations. She said that typically when the city has a subdivision come in, road
      improvements are part of the subdivision request. However, the front parcel was not
      part of the subdivision, or the property that was being subdivided. With the
      development agreement, that applicant said that they would not only do the road
      improvements to the subdivision in the back but improve the parcel that was not part
      of the subdivision. Also, she showed how the access road and fire lane would be
      included for the minimum lot size for both the front parcel and lot 1. She asked if
      there were any questions on the deviations.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Ms. Jastremsky could explain again what the actual
      widths of the lanes that would access lots in phase 1 and phase 2 would be. He
      clarified that the lanes would be 20’ wide as opposed to the required 24’.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that was correct. The access lane to lots 2, 3, and 4 would be 20’.
      The code today required that an access lane be 24’. She noted that the development
      of lots 2, 3, and 4 would not happen for at least seven years. The access to lot 1 would
      be 20’ wide, in alignment with what the current code requires.

      Councilmember F. Lowry didn’t understand why the access to lot 1 at 20’ was aligned
      with the current code, but the 20’ wide access to lots 2, 3, and 4 would require an
      access lane with a width of 24’.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that the width of a private lane was based on the number of
      homes the lane provided access to. The access to lot 1 was not a private lane. It was
      essentially a private driveway. It functioned more as a flag lot where the driveway
      was an easement on the front property. This contrasted with the other access which
      was a private lane serving the lots.

6.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the access was sufficient for fire. Fire Chief Clint
      Smith said that the 20’ did meet the current fire code.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she appreciated the efforts of the developer to
      preserve the historic home. She said that they had seen a lot of Draper’s historic
      homes get torn down and it was nice to see one of the original homes be saved.

      Ms. Jastremsky noted that the Planning Commission did recommend approval for the
      development agreement.

6.4   Nate Shipp, the applicant, said that he appreciated the time and energy of the staff,
      the Planning Commission, and the Council. He didn’t join the meeting just for fun, but
      might in the future. He wanted to add a few details to the conversation about the

                                       Page 16 of 23
      lane. He said that he started the application process a couple of years ago. He filed
      an application to develop the back part of the property. That application was still
      open. He said that if he was unsuccessful in moving forward with this proposal, he
      would go back to the other application. The application for the east lane was
      submitted before the city changed the lane requirement width. If the other open
      application was pursued, it would only be required at its 20’ width. He said that the
      reason why he had taken so much time to go through with the separate application
      was the intent to preserve the home on Stokes Avenue, as well as provide some level
      of security to his neighbors that he did not want to develop the barn and horse
      pastures. He’d like to continue to have his horses. In his mind, it was a little piece of
      Draper that he would not like to see go away. He appreciated the Council is willing to
      move forward with the application in a way that allows all of that to be preserved.

      Councilmember Roberts asked why Mr. Shipp had structured the development
      agreement for the future phases of development to be seven years down the line.
      Mr. Shipp said that he picked a number out of the air. He said at some point he might
      die and his family might need to develop the property. He said that seven years
      seemed like a long way away. He said that at the end of seven years he did not have
      the intention to come in and develop the additional phases. He hoped he was still
      there. He just tried to pick a date that was far enough out that everyone felt
      comfortable and established more than just words that he was not going to develop
      his property today.

6.5   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

6.6   Bruce Baird said that the easement on the 20’ was already locked in and can’t be
      expanded. That was why Mr. Shipp came in earlier than the Council approved the
      changes. Otherwise, his property would have been landlocked.

6.7   Councilmember Green moved to approve Ordinance #1481, Shipp Barn (Stokes)
      Development Agreement to include changes in language as proposed.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

6.8   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Approval of Resolution #21-10, approval of Resolution #21-10
      amending the current FY2021 budget.

7.1   Jared Zacharias outlined the proposed amendments to the FY2021 budget:




                                       Page 17 of 23
•   FY21-41 (Community Development Project CIP17-119): Staff recommended
    that the primary software used by the Community Development
    Department be updated/reprogrammed/ changed on the back-end. This
    process will involve an agreement with Tyler Technologies – EnerGov
    Assist. The update will take a few years to complete. This process will be
    paid for from the current Community Development software project
    (CIP17-119); the project was originally established to upgrade and or
    potentially purchase new software if needed. This update will cost
    $120,000 of the $192,300 available for the project. The money was funded
    by the General Fund.

•   FY21-42 (Fire Department Logistics Building): The City has a building lease
    for the Fire Department logistics building for $138,000 per year. Because
    the purpose of the building has changed throughout the year, staff is
    requesting that the budget be adjusted to reflect its actual use. The lease
    was originally funded by enterprise funds. The additional amount
    requested for the Fire Department is $103,000. Funding for this request
    will come from the General Fund sales tax.

•   FY21-43 (Sidewalk Safety Program – Repairs Project): The city’s sidewalk
    program includes inspecting a fifth of the sidewalks per year and the entire
    city every five years to identify all potential hazards. All hazards are painted
    and then are scheduled to be repaired by prioritizing severity. The
    program also includes responding to citizen complaints within 48 hours.
    With one employee dedicated to inspecting and grinding sidewalks, the
    backlog of potential hazards has grown to the point where a CIP project
    needs to be approved so that a contract can correct the hazards. Funding
    for this request will come from the General Fund sales tax and $205,900 of
    unassigned General Funds available in the Capital Projects Fund. The total
    cost is $300,000.

•   FY21-44 (Bond Defeasance – Early Payoff): On February 8, 2021, Draper City
    officially issued the defeasance of two bonds. The City Council adopted
    Resolution #21-07 on January 19, 2021, in relation to the defeasance. The
    Sales Tax Revenue Bond 2012B Series originally related to the construction
    of City Hall and Bangerter Parkway construction. The MBA Revenue Bond
    Series 2016 originally related to the SunCrest Fire Station. Funding for this
    request would come from the General Fund balance. $2,529,166 would go
    towards the 2012B Series principal payment, $7,800 would go towards the
    2012B cost of issuance, $1,493,554 would go towards the 2016 series
    principal payment, and $6,500 would go towards the 2016 cost of issuance,
    for a total of $4,037,130 of money from the General Fund.


                           Page 18 of 23
      •   FY21-45 (Deer Ridge Transmission Water Line Upgrades and Maintenance):
          Staff is requesting a new capital project for the waterline portion of CIP21-
          01-Deer Ridge Drive Reconstruction. The project would be called “Deer
          Ridge Transmission Water Line Upgrades and Maintenance.” Staff is
          requesting to move $200,000 out of project #CIP21-01. An additional
          $1,300,000 is also needed from the Water Fund to complete the water line
          project. This will bring the total project budget to $150,000, 000. Funding
          will come from the Water Fund Balance.

      •   FY21-46 (CIP 20-01: Closing Project Contingency): It is anticipated that all of
          the existing budget balance will be used up before the end of the fiscal
          year. Additional funds are requested to provide sufficient contingency for
          the remainder of the fiscal year. The amount of the requested budget
          amendment is an additional $10,000 for FY21. Staff is also recommending
          adding $30,000 so that funds are available for other projects throughout
          the City in future fiscal years. The $40,000 of funding would come from the
          General Fund Sales Tax.

      •   FY21-47 (Fire Department): Draper City Fire Department and the Human
          Resources Department conducted a salary and wage study within Salt Lake
          County for the Fire Department. The study found that the top-end base
          wage for various fire positions was between 8,56% and 16.20% less. To
          bring the wages up closer to the average and ensure that wages stay
          competitive, staff requested both a market adjustment and an adjustment
          between each step within the step plan. Currently, all steps are at 2.75%.
          The new plan would have steps 1-5 at 5% and steps 6-12 at 3% as well as
          removing the entry step applicable to Firefighter I and Paramedic I
          positions. The total cost for this amendment is $90,000. The ongoing cost
          for a full fiscal year is $392,000. Funding for this request will come from
          General Fund Sales Tax. A table of the step program and associated
          percentages was presented, including percentages below-average wages.

There was subsequent discussion surrounding this wage increase.

Mr. Dobbins said that when you looked at these wages, in some instances Draper’s
wages for firefighters were the lowest in the county. He pointed to the line of the
table that indicated the dollar amount of Draper’s difference in starting wage from
the average in the county and said that it was significant. Regarding recruiting new
people as opposed to a transfer from another department, in some cases, Draper was
significantly below what the market paid.

Mr. Zacharias added that because of this staff recommended both a market
adjustment and changes to encourage promotions from a Firefighter I to a Firefighter

                                 Page 19 of 23
II to encourage internal staff to do the certifications to get a jump in pay. The goal
was to get the wages as close to competitive salaries as possible.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like this was a good thing to do. As they
have all seen too frequently, the city will invest a lot of time and money into training
staff only to have them leave Draper just to make a tiny bit more in another city. She
said that she knew that this was frustrating for both of Draper’s chiefs. She said that
they needed to keep these great people in Draper.

Councilmember Green said that he was a big believer in taking care of your people.
He asked what the consequences would be if they funded the item to exactly meet
the average. He said that he didn’t want to be below 1.5%. He wanted to be above it.
Mr. Zacharias said that it would bring the cost up an additional $120,000 a year.

Councilmember Green asked what bucket of money would need to be taken away
from to do that. Mr. Dobbins added that this item was what was proposed to
implement immediately. In the next fiscal budget, beginning on July 1, staff were also
proposing a 2% COLA (Cost of Living Allowance), that would add the amount to what
was implemented now. He felt like that would bump Draper up to the average.

Councilmember Green said that he did not want to be in the middle. The average was
not where Draper should be. He wanted people fighting to come to Draper. He
wanted the best of the best because they paid the best.

Mr. Zacharias said that when they dropped down to 1.5% it saved $120,000. He
assumed that if they were going to go 1.0% above that it would be almost 3.5% higher
than what was outlined. That extra expense could be close to $200,000 more per year
of committed cost in financial terms that was a lot.

Councilmember Roberts said that he would be interested in hearing Chief Smith’s
view on the labor market right now and how these slight changes in pay would impact
the ability to attract talent. He wanted a sense if Draper would lose on the margin.

Fire Chief Clint Smith said that he appreciated the question. He said that a lot of
resources went into the project to look at salaries across the valley. He said that they
had seen one individual who recently left for another opportunity. They have seven
new individuals in the recruit training process right now. There was one individual
who was committed to Draper who withdrew based on pay and a better offer from
another department. He said that the loss of employees was happening. He said that
Draper had been fortunate because it was able to provide a lot of other benefits to
individuals who come to work for the Draper Fire Department regarding the support
they get from the Council and city administration and the benefits package. He did
not think that they had a significant problem as of late, but some isolated incidents.

                                 Page 20 of 23
However, this discussion being below the market average in the valley was becoming
more and more prevalent as openings in paramedic rigs have become more and more
challenging to recruit individuals. Of the new hires, three were slated to be
paramedics, but they could not find any qualified individuals so all of the positions
were filled by fire or EMT folks, and then the department will have to put some of their
people through the paramedic certification process at an additional expense. In
terms of the proposals made, it was substantial to get them up to the average. He
said there were still other departments out there that would be higher than Draper’s
rate.

Councilmember Roberts asked if Draper’s benefits package exceeds the average in
the valley. He wanted to know if Draper’s benefits package on a monetary basis better
than other departments. Fire Chief Clint Smith said that Draper City’s health
insurance was better than average across the departments in the valley in terms of
the 90/10 split that happened in the city. A lot of other departments were 80/20. All
entities offer some sort of a 401K match as Draper City does. These do help.

Mr. Dobbins said that in general, Draper was above average in terms of overall
benefits. He said that was one of the things that kept Draper competitive.
Councilmember Roberts asked if Fire Chief Clint Smith stood behind these numbers
and if they were something he felt confident he could go out to the department and
the labor market and stand behind.

Fire Chief Clint Smith said that he did. He said that he appreciated Councilmember
Green’s comments and the fact that we want to try and be above average. That being
said, this was a substantial step from where they were to bring them up to the
average. Again, a lot of discussions had taken place on how to best approach this and
be fiscally mindful and responsible to Draper residents. The plan to have the 2% COLA
factored in with the opening of the next fiscal year budget would put Draper a little
bit over average by about $500 on every position.

Mr. Zacharias said that because this would have a large effect on future budgets, he
and Bob Wylie, Financial Director, were predicting that maybe $1 million could
eventually be added next year. This amendment as it stood now was taking 40% of
all available resources. Anything left would compete. He said yes, the wage increase
could happen, but it was taking about 40% of available resources to be added.

Fire Chief Clint Smith said that Councilmember T. Lowery brought up the training
component. He said that was a substantial piece to both the Fire and Police
Departments. He said that the Fire Department’s estimated cost just for the new
employee for equipment, uniforms, and (Personal Protective Equipment) PPE for a
new employee was $10,000. Then, there was a 10-week training process. This meant
that there was an initial investment of about $16,000 for each new individual

                                 Page 21 of 23
      recruited. That was a substantial investment. Because of this, once someone was
      invested in, they wanted to see some return on the investment before someone else
      was able to lure them away.

      Councilmember Roberts said that they would need $1 million of additional ongoing
      cash in future budgets and this would soak up 40% of that need. Mr. Zacharias said
      that the only reason why there was $1 million available in FY21’s budget was that staff
      were very conservative in the last year because of COVID. In a normal year, the city
      would not see such large numbers that could be added to ongoing budgets. Because
      of this, if this money was going to be added, this year would be the year to do it
      because the money was available.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the bond defeasance money had an impact. Mr.
      Zacharias said that it made this money less. The bond defeasance was possible
      because it was a one-time payment of $4 million. The City had a lot of money saved
      up to offset that one-time payment. He said that some of the cost savings from the
      defeasance did help offset this additional expense.

7.4   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

7.5   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-10, amending the
      current FY2021 budget. Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

7.6   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he felt like they needed to evaluate these wages
      in the next few months as was suggested by Mr. Dobbins to help them make sure that
      firefighter and police positions were competitive with other agencies.

7.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Recess to a Draper City Municipal Building Authority Meeting.

8.1   Councilmember Green moved to recess to a Municipal Board Authority Meeting.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

8.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Adjournment

9.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery
      seconded the motion.

                                       Page 22 of 23
9.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:01 p.m.




                                    Page 23 of 23
