MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2021,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:             Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (via
                     Zoom), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                     Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden, Recreation
                    Director; Christina Oliver, Community Development Director;
                    Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications
                    Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
_______________________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code
       2- 1-040.

Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper
City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of
those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City
Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

   •   Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
       Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the
       COVID-19 virus.
   •   While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging downward
       trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper
       population, diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in cases and
       hospitalizations.
   •   It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
       meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
       with applicable health orders.
   •   COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
       welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
      •   The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
          may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
          participate in public hearings.




Study Session

1.0       Interview candidate for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
          Administrative Control Board

          Jordan Schmitz, the candidate, said that he grew up on a farm that taught him
          some great things about work ethic and being involved in the community. He
          grew up in a town in North Dakota of just 12,000 that provided a small-town
          community feel. He and his wife had recently moved up to Traverse Ridge in
          SunCrest. He said that with his work ethic and his negotiation background he
          wanted to make a difference. He said that his family loved their little slice of
          Draper heaven. He said if this was something he could do to make it better or
          do anything to make the community a better place, he wanted to do it.

2.0       Dog Walker Watch – Chief John Eining

2.1       Chief John Eining said that Sue Campbell, the department's crime prevention
          specialist, would talk about the program. In the spirit of volunteerism, the
          Dog Walker Watch was another program the Police Department wanted to use
          to create to increase their ability to have eyes and ears out in the community.

2.2       Ms. Campbell said that the Dog Walker Watch was a mobile neighborhood
          watch. She said that back in the day when she would respond to a call to
          investigate a crime she would often ask who the habitual walkers and dog
          walkers were. She would then go interview them to find out if they had seen
          anything unusual. Sometimes these folks did without realizing they were
          witnessing a crime. The Dog Walker Watch would teach people to be more
          observant in their neighborhoods because they are the people who are out in
          the community and recognizing odd behaviors and vehicles that shouldn’t be
          there. The program would teach walkers what suspicious behavior looked like
          and when to call the non-emergency or emergency number. The training
          would educate walkers on how to stay calm and that they were not bothering
          the Police Department. The theory behind the training was not to hold classes

                                       Page 2 of 38
      but to approach people who were already out walking trails, in the dog parks
      and neighborhoods. Staff had a rack card and some swag from Animal Control
      that they would distribute to folks to find out if they were interested. The card
      would send people to a website with a PowerPoint to look through to get
      educated. She said that one of the rewards was that participants would get a
      bandana for their dog.

      Chief Eining said that one of the nice things about the program was that
      anyone who wanted to participate could be educated online on what to do if
      something looked suspicious.      The program was open to absolutely
      everybody.

      Ms. Campbell said that it was a national program out of the same volunteer
      group that does National Night Out. She said that it did help bring the
      community together and to interact with the Police Department.

      Chief Eining and Ms. Campbell had examples of the flyers for the Council.

3.0   Land Use Training – Mike Barker

3.1   Mike Barker, City Attorney, said that this was the time of year that they were
      reminded that Draper was a political subdivision of the State of Utah. He said
      that he supposed the legislature left some zoning discretion with
      municipalities, there were a few areas that they needed to talk about that the
      Council would see changes in Draper ordinances to implement the new
      statutes that were passed. He said that the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
      statute did not go into effect until October 1, 2021. He said they would have
      some time to work through how to address ADUs in Draper’s ordinance.

      The first item Mr. Barker talked about was HB 409, amendments to Land Use,
      Development, and Management Act (LUDMA). The provision under the bill
      would take effect on May 5, 2021. He said that he knew that Community
      Development was working hard to amend ordinances where appropriate.
      Those changes would be taken to the Planning Commission and then would
      come before the Council to have everything implemented in time. He said that
      this item had been discussed for several years. In 2020 it was discussed to
      have the City Council trained, but this year the state-required four hours
      annually of training for the Planning Commission. One hour of the training
      was dedicated to the general powers and duties under LUDMA. Newly

                                   Page 3 of 38
appointed Planning Commission members must complete this one hour of
training before they can assume their duties. The other three hours could be
chosen from a broad selection of categories: conditional use permits (CUPs),
vested rights, exactions, etc. One of those three hours can be achieved by
attending 12 Planning Commission meetings per year. Every year Mr. Barker
would provide the one-hour training. He could not think of any Planning
Commission that didn’t have 12 meetings. This would leave a couple of hours
that staff would provide in-house training. Planning Commission members
could also meet their training hours by attending conferences or other
seminars. The statute mandated that the city maintain training records.

HB 409 also addressed development agreements. Mr. Barker said that was
nice because there had not been a lot of previous guidance on development
agreements. In the past statute just mentioned that they were a tool that cities
could use in achieving the goals of LUDMA. This year the legislature defined
what a development agreement is. It also reaffirmed that the city could use a
development agreement as a planning tool and placed some limitations on
development agreements. He said that the city could not use its authority to
enact future land use regulations or ordinances under general welfare powers.
Mr. Barker said this was already included in their development agreements
template. A development agreement may not require the city to change the
zoning on an area of land in the future. This was already something that
Draper did not do as a matter of practice in the city.

In the approval portion of HB 409, there were two tracks. If the development
agreement proposed to change a land use regulation it had to follow a
legislative process. Draper had started doing this a couple of years ago. The
new statute codifies language from a recent court of appeals case from Utah’s
Supreme Court called Wallingford v. Moab City. This solidified that any
regulation change proposal had to go before both the Planning Commission
and the City Council. If not proposing a regulation change, development
agreements could remain an administrative process. However, a policy
question arose if the City Council still wanted to hear and decide on
development agreements. Although Mr. Barker could not think of a city that
would do this, he felt it was important to mention that a development
agreement cannot be the only option to develop land. He said that every
application could not become a negotiation.




                             Page 4 of 38
Mr. Barker noted that he and Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney, were
currently working on amending the city’s template to address some issues
they had seen arise in the past. The new template would be done in the next
month or so.

In HB 409 there were some tweaks to definitions of development agreements,
lot line adjustments, subdivisions, and substantial evidence. It was clarified
that a party may not appeal a legislative decision to appeal authority. Mr.
Barker felt that was already pretty clear, but apparently, some Utah cities
would take a denial of a zone change to an appeal authority other than a
district court. Lastly, there were some minor items.

Plat amendments must preserve culinary water and sewer facility easements
existing within the subdivision.

The statute provided clarification that approval standards for conditional use
permits must be objective. Staff would be going through the code to make
sure there were concrete standards. The legislature consistently changed
statutes to make sure that rules were clear for developers and the public so
that everyone knew what the rules were within any particular type of
application;

There were also new parameters around the vesting of single-family plats. Mr.
Barker said this item slipped in during the last week of the session and was
absolutely bizarre. If someone has a plat of a single-family residence, they are
now vested in the code for 10 years. Any subsequent amendments to land
use regulations would not apply to those single-family residences. Mr. Barker
said that he saw this as a de facto development agreement. He said that some
developers were not pleased with this either because it tied their hands. He
said that he thought that it might come up in a special session when they are
looking at HB 98.

Members of the Council asked for further explanation.

Mr. Barker said Draper operated under this already. He cited the SunCrest
Development Agreement. The city was applying standards in SunCrest that
were approved 22 years ago. What this new statute does is if someone takes
raw ground and plats it for single-family residences, the code at the time a
property is plated becomes locked in for the development of those homes.

                             Page 5 of 38
For example, if homes were developed based on this year’s code that required
20’ setbacks, but Draper later changed the code to require a 30’ setback, the
property owner got to develop under the 20’ setback for ten years. On the one
hand, there were record-keeping issues because the city now had to track
approvals and amendments to the code to make sure that staff was not trying
to apply something that shouldn’t be applied. He said that from his point of
view, what was interesting was the language “any land use regulation.” He had
talked with some of his colleagues who were taking the position that a
beneficial change would be applicable, but the code said, “any land use
regulation.” He would argue that the legislature is capable of drafting
something that reflects their will and they used the words “any land use
regulation” so he didn’t know how often this would come up. He said that with
single-family residences they don’t normally change height restrictions and
setbacks. Hopefully, it was something that they were making a big thing of
now but might not become a big thing in the future. He said that the 10-year
vesting did not apply to any applicable building codes, health codes, fire codes,
or similar regulations.

Councilmember Roberts clarified that the developer couldn’t opt-out. It
restricted them, too. Mr. Barker said this was correct. He said that there were
all sorts of stories about how what went into the legislative council was not
what comes out of the legislative council. He said that both sides might want
to rework this statute to reflect what was discussed.

Mr. Barker continued that each year there were tweaks to the mechanisms by
which people can adjust their common boundaries with adjacent landowners.
Once again there were tweaks to parcel boundary adjustments, lot line
adjustments, and boundary line agreements. The takeaway was that if two
owners of parcels want to adjust their boundaries the city isn’t involved unless
one of the parcels involves a dwelling. Generally, these parcel adjustments
had been off-limits to city regulations. Lot line adjustments clarified that these
were subject to plat amendments. Those were situations where there were
two adjacent lots within a subdivision, or there was a lot adjacent to a parcel
that was not in the subdivision. This clarified that if they wanted to adjust their
boundaries, the plat had to be amended to reflect the new boundary.

The next item addressed was Low Impact Development (LID). He said that this
was a bill that said that if a city required low impact development that the city
cannot require the installation of pavement with a width greater than thirty-

                              Page 6 of 38
two feet (32’) if LID is required in that particular area. He said there was an
exception. It did not apply if the city required installation of pavement in a
vehicle turnaround or to address specific traffic flow constraints at an
intersection or other area. Mr. Barker said that the Engineering and
Community Development Departments were aware of the change. He said
this particular section also requires the city to establish by ordinance any city
standards for fire department vehicle access and turnarounds on roadways.
Normally, the Fire Marshal goes to the fire code and says one of the
appendices talks about fire apparatus access roads, and those are the
standards. Those standards now have to be adopted by a city ordinance so
they were a part of the city code.

Next Mr. Barker talked about HB 82 and single-family housing modifications
and Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADUs). He said this was a huge topic
during the sessions. There were various iterations of the bill that went back
and forth. An IADU is an ADU that is created within the primary footprint of
the dwelling to offer long-term rentals of 30 consecutive days or longer. This
means that (1) there has to be a primary dwelling, which as the code stands
now, is defined as a single-family residence; (2) the IADU cannot expand the
footprint of the primary dwelling; and (3) the IADU can only be for long-term
rentals. This means they are not supposed to be rented through Airbnb. As a
result of HB 82, the definition of single-family limit was changed. This means
that the city cannot differentiate between related and unrelated individuals.
He said that when he looks at this language and the remaining language in the
code it seems to say that the city has the ability to limit the number of people
who live in a single-family dwelling. Mr. Barker said that by striking the one
word and leaving the rest the same, it flipped the language on its head. The
intent behind the language was that the city does not look at familial relations
in defining the single-family limit. He said that familial relations were a hard
thing to enforce anyway. How do you prove that people are unrelated? For
that reason, this change was not a big issue for a lot of cities.

The IADUs will be permitted in any use with a primary residential use. There
were some limitations. He reminded the council the vast majority of the bill
would go into effect on October 1, 2021. The city needed to have something
in place if they wanted to regulate by October 1. Otherwise, IADUs were
permitted and the city would lose its chance to regulate the IADUs. Because
of this, the city does not want to have a dead period where applications were
coming in but didn’t have standards in place. He said that staff would be

                             Page 7 of 38
working on this issue and coming to study sessions to get the Council’s input
quickly. Mr. Barker noted that IADUs had to comply with building, health, and
fire code, including the upgrading of egress windows. Currently, if a person
renovates their basement, they didn’t have to upgrade their egress windows
to come into compliance with building standards.

Mr. Barker then explained what cities CAN do. Cities may:

   1. Prohibit the installation of a separate utility meter;
   2. Require the IADU to be designed so that it does not change the
      appearance of the single-family dwelling as the primary residence;
   3. Address parking issues as to the primary dwelling. If an IADU is added,
      the city can require additional parking spaces. If a garage is converted,
      the city can require those parking spaces to be replaced;
   4. Prohibit the creation of an IADU in a mobile home;
   5. Require the owner of the primary dwelling to obtain a permit to rent the
      unit;
   6. Prohibit the creation of an IADU “within a zoning district covering an
      area that is equivalent to 25% or less of the total area in the [City] that
      is zoned primarily for residential use.” If there were 1,000 acres of an
      area that was zoned primarily for residential use, the city could prohibit
      IADUs in 250 of those acres. That can span across zones. An area could
      be delineated by streets to allow a certain area of the city to prohibit
      IADUs. Mr. Barker said this would be interesting because when the
      ordinance goes to the Planning Commission, there will be people who
      are mad that they can’t do an IADU and there will be people who are
      upset that IADUs are allowed in their area.

Councilmember Roberts said that he had made his opinion on the bill known.
At the end of the day, the enforcement piece of the bill would be challenging.
There were IADUs all over the city now. He said that it seemed like the bill gave
some sort of regulatory method on the part of the city if people apply for a
permit. He said that he imagined that most people wouldn’t or don’t care. He
asked Mr. Barker if he had a view on the enforcement piece of the legislation.

Mr. Barker said enforcement would be a challenge. He said that he didn’t
know what people’s behavior would be.




                             Page 8 of 38
Councilmember Roberts asked about putting a lien on for violations. He asked
how the city proved violations.

David Dobbins, City Manager, told the Council that he wanted them to start
thinking about how they wanted to come up with the 75-25 split. He also
pointed out that the language applied to all single-family units, even if they
were in HOAs. Even if someone lived in an HOA that currently prohibited
IADUs, according to state law, those HOAs can no longer prohibit that from
happening. He said that this was an item that staff would want to spend some
time with the Council before presenting so that they could look at some maps
and options because the law will pit sections of the city against each other.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that this seemed like something that HOAs
could approach the Council to request. If an HOA board vote that they want
to pursue being a part of the 25%, that would be a reasonable way to
determine areas of the city that prohibit IADUs.

Mr. Dobbins said that could be a way to determine what areas allowed IADUs
and which didn’t. That would require outreach on the staff’s part. Staff wanted
a sense of how the Council wanted to go about figuring this out. Did they want
a public process? Did they want staff to just propose something?

Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt that the areas that would be most
problematic would be places with HOAs that had already banned IADUs. She
said she thought it would make a lot of sense to reach out to some of those
HOAs to say this will be an option. If the board votes that you would like to
pursue this, let us know.

Mr. Dobbins said that other cities were contemplating areas that IADUs would
not be allowed based on street widths where there would be parking
problems. The Council might say that if you live in a development with really
narrow roads, or where there are already parking issues, that might be the
areas that the city says IADUs are prohibited so as not to exacerbate an
existing problem.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the city would be allowed to discriminate
based on road width. He said that he didn’t see how that could be used as a
criterion.



                             Page 9 of 38
Mr. Barker said that the bill did not give cities much guidance at all. Because
of this, he would say that the city was free, within the bounds of constitutional
law, to draw the exclusionary areas according to how they saw fit.

Councilmember F. Lowry said the criteria could be used as long as the area
did not exceed 25% of the city.

Mr. Barker clarified that it was 25% of the area that was zoned primarily as
residential.

Councilmember T. Lowery had a question regarding parking requirements in
item 3. She clarified that with an IADU one additional stall was required. She
asked what this was in addition to.

Mr. Barker said that the Draper code required two on-site parking stalls for
each residence. If someone adds an IADU, they will have to have at least
another space and if a resident converts their garage, they will have to come
up with two to replace what they do with the garage and one additional space.

Councilmember T.      Lowery confirmed that the IADUs have to be owner-
occupied.

Mr. Barker said yes, but that came back to the enforcement challenge. He said
that he did feel like there were benefits to the city as it gave them a regulatory
mechanism to get a handle on what was already going on.

   7. Prohibit an IADU if the primary dwelling is served by a failing septic tank;

          Councilmember F. Lowry asked how it would be determined that a
          septic tank was failing?

          Mr. Barker said that the city could require as a part of the application
          that if someone was on a septic system that they had it checked out.

   8. Prohibit an IADU on a lot less than 6,000 square feet;
   9. Prohibit the rental of an IADU for periods less than 30 days;
   10. Prohibit the rental of an IADU if the primary dwelling is not owner-
       owned and operated;
   11. Hold a lien against a property with an IADU if violations occur;

                             Page 10 of 38
Mr. Barker addressed the question of holding a lien against violations. He said
that the issue of the lien took up the most space in the bill. It was a process
that gave the homeowner due process. The city could not just go out and slap
on a lien. They had to go through a hearing process and curing process where
the resident had a certain period to cure. By the time the city got to the point
where they were putting on a lien for a violation, the resident had been
through a whole process. However, the initial question about if determining a
lack of compliance, Mr. Barker felt that would need to be handled like other
enforcement situations where staff rely on reports and complaints from
citizens.

Councilmember Roberts asked what sort of evidence the city would provide
that someone was in violation during the hearing process. Mr. Barker said that
he thought the city would have to treat issues of compliance with the same
investigative process as other issues. If the city wanted to tell a resident that
they were in violation because they were not owner-occupied, the city would
have to do an investigation where it felt comfortable that the primary dwelling
was not owner-occupied.

Councilmember Roberts said that as a City it did not seem that they were
equipped to spend the time, money, or resources to do that. Mr. Barker
agreed, it was a matter of resource allocation. He said that he anticipated that
they would hear from the league about wanting cities to document the
timeline they are adopting these new laws and amending their ordinances, but
also the time they were spending enforcing these rules so that they could go
back to the legislature to say you’ve given us these mandates and we are
spending all this time enforcing these rules, instead of moving forward
development ideas to better house people.

   12. Record a notice regarding an IADU with the County Recorder.

Mr. Barker then went through a list of what cities CANNOT do. Cities may not:
    1. Require anything not listed above, including regulating the size of the
       IADU in relation to the primary dwelling, total lot size (i.e. 6,000 square
       foot minimum size), or street frontage.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there was any sort of limitation on how
many IADUs could be added to a residence. For example, could an owner have

                             Page 11 of 38
an IADU in the home, in the basement, and in the garage? Mr. Barker said that
he thought an owner could have one IADU. He said that staff was looking into
the issue of if they wanted to still allow external ADUs. The concern was
turning a single-family residence into a boarding house or a hotel.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that she had received that complaint before;
the city was allowing single-family homes to become apartments. She saw the
potential where one home could actually be four homes. Mr. Barker said that
staff were aware of that and intended to bring the issue back as a discussion
point for the Council.

Regarding enforcement, Mayor Walker noted that Draper did not have a large
enforcement division. He suggested that to be able to enforce these new rules
Draper would probably need to expand the code enforcement division if the
Council wanted to enforce the ADU business. He said they would need people
to do it. He said that like Mr. Barker said there would be some people who
were excited to be able to do it and a lot of neighbors who were unhappy
about the cars and parking. He said that he felt that the Council needed to
have some way to deal with it.

Mr. Barker said that he thought that one of the biggest challenges the city
would have was differentiating between those who were using the IADU for
long-term rentals versus those who were constructing them and using them
for short-term rentals.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if requiring a permit would help the city in
determining where to enforce. Mayor Walker said that one of the problems
will be that there will be people who rent their basements like Airbnb. He said
that was where the complaints were going to come from. Partiers would show
up, neighbors would complain that every weekend there was a new group of
partiers in it. He said that there were already incidents in the city of Airbnbs
gone wild where cops had to come in and arrest people. People got beaten
up. He said that if there wasn’t a way to enforce the ordinances, he thought
that it would get out of hand.

Councilmember Roberts asked if the true question was if the law was going to
change any behavior. He asked if people were not already doing this. He said
that he knew people up in SunCrest who were renting out Airbnbs.



                            Page 12 of 38
Mr. Barker said that short-term rentals were not illegal in Draper. He said the
city had not regulated them. He said that for him it felt like a simple economic
decision: if a resident can get a permit for an IADU and rent it out for $1,500 a
month versus $250 a night, the temptation is no doubt to do the short-term
rentals. He said that was why he thought a lot of the city’s enforcement would
focus on the short-term rental issue.

Mayor Walker said again that Draper did not have enough code enforcement
people to do the job.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Barker suggested that the Council
needed to look at limiting short-term rentals. She said that she thought that
state law didn’t want cities to limit short-term rentals. Mr. Barker said that the
City cannot go after someone because they list on a short-term rental website.
The City had not regulated short-term rentals, but they could.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if they regulated short-term rentals that
would make it easier to enforce the IADUs. She said she saw what Mr. Barker
was saying; short-term rentals and IADUs would be hard to differentiate. She
said that maybe Draper code needed to say that rentals needed to be 30-days
and make it commensurate with state law.

Mayor Walker clarified that Councilmember T. Lowery had suggested that
trying to regulate IADUs without regulations on short-term rentals would push
everything to short-term rentals, so the city should regulate short-term rentals
first.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that without the contemporaneous regulation
an owner could just claim that the space was not a short-term IADU, it was an
overnight VRBO.

Mr. Barker said that short-term rentals, at least over the last couple of years,
had been just on the cusp of the legislature's list of things to take care of. The
issue came up again this year. The proponents of HB 82 said not this year. He
said that the issue would come back.

Mayor Walker said that short-term rentals did not fix the housing crisis. He
understood that if they did not regulate short-term rentals and tried to start



                             Page 13 of 38
regulating the housing crisis rentals, the city would become “Airbnb Properties
of Utah”.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that with that in mind, she felt like it would be
wise to have staff draw something up for the Council to look at. She asked if
other Councilmembers were interested in that. Councilmember Roberts said,
potentially. He asked what the current code said regarding IADUs, not short-
term rentals.

Mr. Barker said that Draper did not regulate IADUs. They’d never been
allowed. Councilmember Roberts said that he knew they were not allowed,
but he wanted to know if Draper had ever enforced that. He said if the city
had not ever enforced them, why all of a sudden was Draper enforcing them
now.

Mr. Dobbins said that one thing the city has done to prevent single-family
homes from having a true IADU, which includes a separate meter, and kitchen,
etc. was if someone came to get a building permit, staff might point out that it
looked like they were creating a single-family IADU and tell the applicant that
they were not allowed to do that. If a resident makes the IADU anyway,
neighbors will call in stating that they think that a basement was being rented
out. Staff would then check records and confirm that an owner had not filed
a permit for a formal rental, and go and knock on the door to ask if they had a
renter. To this point, however, staff have not formally said that they would go
inside a home to investigate or stop people in a home to ask if they were
related.

Councilmember Roberts confirmed that the only way the city had regulated
IADUs in the past was by flagging permits where someone was trying to put in
a second kitchen or meter. However, a lot of people were simply renting out
their basements which had never been enforced. Mr. Dobbins said that while
some cities were very aggressive, historically, Draper had taken a hands-off
approach.

Councilmember Roberts asked if they started to regulate based on these
IADUs that were not pulling builder’s permits, the city did not have the current
resources and staff for enforcement. Essentially, to regulate the new rules,
Draper would need to pull from its budget. Mr. Dobbins said that right now
Draper had one employee who did code enforcement for the entire city. He

                            Page 14 of 38
said that person dealt with all the complaints about lawns, parked cars, and
everything else one could think of.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that now that this was codified by the state,
there would be residents who had neighbors doing this and not following the
code. They will know that the city could be enforcing the IADU regulations.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that proper enforcement was the only way to
nip the issue to keep it somewhat under control.

Councilmember Roberts said that they would not be able to effectively enforce
most cases. They were already currently not enforced. He said that there were
tons of IADUs around the city already that were not getting enforced. Even if
the staff was expanded to enforce these, it was impossible to do so
successfully. He wanted to know if Draper wanted to spend more taxpayer
dollars to go out and enforce something that was unenforceable?
Councilmember T. Lowery said that it was enforceable now. Mr. Dobbins said
that it was enforceable on the books. He said that the practical side of
enforcement would be a whole different challenge.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that now they would be able to look to see if
an owner had pulled a permit for an IADU. Either they had one or they didn’t.
If people showed up every night to live in the basement and an owner didn’t
have a permit then the city could put a lien on them.

Councilmember Roberts asked how it was possible to prove that someone is
coming in and out every night without applying surveillance. Councilmember
T. Lowery said that she was with Councilmember F. Lowry; enforcement was
necessary because this was something that could get out of hand quickly.

Councilmember Green said that he didn’t think that he liked having the police
or an enforcement officer having to go out and investigate. You would be
going to a resident’s door, investigating, and then trying to build a case against
a resident. He said that he was uncomfortable with that. He said that he felt
that the city should do the minimum amount that state law required.

Mayor Walker said that if the Council was not going to enforce regulations,
why go through the exercise of writing up a code. He suggested that they just



                             Page 15 of 38
      have no code. He said he did not see the point of having staff spend four
      months writing up code if the majority of the Council didn’t want to enforce it.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he thought that the code needed to be on the City’s
      books just to comply with state law. The City had to designate the areas where
      IADUs were allowed. Mr. Barker said they don’t necessarily have to have an
      ordinance because the law says that if a city does not have something in place
      by October 1, 2021, then IADUs could just be done in any zone with a primary
      residential permitted use.

      Mayor Walker asked Mr. Barker if his question for the Council was if they
      wanted him to come up with a regulatory framework for this item. Mr. Barker
      said that he did not ask that question, but that it would be helpful to know. He
      said that the conversation had taken a different direction than anticipated.

      Mayor Walker asked the Council what their direction was on having Mr. Barker
      and staff draft a regulatory framework. Councilmember Roberts said that he
      wanted some time to think about it.

      Mr. Barker said that some of this was hard to think about in the abstract
      without a concrete piece of paper outlining regulations.

      Councilmember Roberts said that if Mr. Barker wanted to take the time to draft
      that document he would not oppose it.

      Councilmember Green said that he would want an ordinance that met the
      minimum state requirements and that he didn’t want to waste resources.

      Mr. Barker had a few more land-use bills to inform the Council on. HB 107
      stated that plat applications must include a description of water conveyance
      facility rights-of-way and easements and any water conveyance facilities. The
      City then has 20 days to mail notice to conveyance facility owners within 100’
      of plat boundaries. SB 201 modified newspaper notice requirements for some
      land use applications.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports

4.1   Councilmember Roberts talked about the retention pond issue up at SunCrest.
      He said that he drove up Traverse Ridge going home one day and kids were

                                  Page 16 of 38
      doing massive figure eights all over that place. He said there were big rocks
      there and it struck him as extremely dangerous. He wondered if there was a
      way they could prevent people from off-roading in that area. He said that it
      worried him that all it took was one bad move before kids hit a rock and were
      in trouble. Councilmember T. Lowery said that it also looked very poorly.

      Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said the staff was addressing the issue by
      putting gates up. He said that even if you put a gate up it just gave kids the
      challenge to go around the gate. Staff had put up some barriers that day as a
      temporary thing and would be removed once staff comes up with a
      permanent solution. Regarding the landscaping of the pond and the
      restoration of what was there, it has been planted. There isn’t another way to
      landscape the area without irrigation. He said that the staff was looking at the
      possibility of getting irrigation. If that was possible, staff were looking at
      getting some trees in addition to what had already been done: overlaying the
      entire area with six inches of topsoil and seeding it with a native seed mix. He
      said it would take some time to grow, but it was the same process that was
      followed with all of the cuts on SunCrest. He said that it just took some time
      to re-establish ground cover.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that if the area had been driven on by razors,
      it might not be ideal growing conditions. Mr. Cooley said those were for sure
      not ideal conditions. The staff was trying to address that. He said that there
      were people doing things that they shouldn’t all over the city and staff just had
      to address issues on a case-by-case basis. He said they were looking into the
      possibility of adding some trees with some irrigation. Without irrigation it was
      not possible to add trees. They would just die.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked when they would see the irrigation and tree
      plans. Mr. Cooley said he had a staff member looking into the irrigation at
      present. He said that if the irrigation was possible, then they would look into
      adding trees. He noted that they were completely out of budget for that stuff,
      so would have to present the proposal to the Council to figure out if that was
      something the Council wanted, the associated cost, and funding. He said staff
      acted the day prior. It would take a week or so to get answers.

4.2   Councilmember T. Lowery said that there was a report that the gate that was
      installed at the Flight Park had been vandalized and broken. She wanted to



                                   Page 17 of 38
know if there was an update on that incident. Mr. Dobbins said that he had
reached out to the County, but had not heard back.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that in the meantime, residents had asked the
police to patrol and had been told that the police have no jurisdiction. In the
absence of patrol, the drinking and trespassing in neighbors’ backyards has
begun again.

Chief Eining said that he was not aware of any messaging that sounded like
that. He said that they would enforce, and have enforced issues going on in
the park. He said that anything that happened to neighbors outside of the
park was absolutely part of the Draper Police Department jurisdiction. He said
police had issued citations and made arrests inside the park. He said that he
was not aware of who was saying that if it was being said.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that it would be important to figure out what
was going on with the gate because she felt like it made a tremendous
difference for the neighborhood.

Chief Eining said that he had not heard of any of the problems. He didn’t even
know that the gate was down. He said that it was an issue he would follow up
on. In the meantime, he would make sure that his graveyard staff was going
up there to patrol the area. Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought
it would be really helpful if the area was just added to the regular patrol.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if they did not already have a police officer
who closed the gate each night or was it automatic.

Mr. Dobbins said that part of the issue was that even when the gate closed,
people could still walk in the area and do all kinds of things. It was like many
of Draper’s other parks and open space. Trailheads, especially as it got
warmer, were the places that people tend to hang around outside and engage
in raucous activities.

Mayor Walker said that he knew that they always enforced poor behavior. He
said that he had been on several ride-along and it was like a prime hunting
ground for sundry offenses.




                            Page 18 of 38
      Chief Eining said that he had several officers who made it their mission to hit
      trailheads and parks. They find an awful lot of things going on in the parks at
      night.

4.3   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she and Councilmember Vawdrey had
      spoken with Jamie Pogue, the Director of the Parks and Trails Commission. He
      was concerned about the use of trails during the mud season. There had been
      a tremendous amount of damage done to some of the brand-new trails,
      predominately by horses. She asked if there was anything staff could do to
      help with that.

      Mayor Walker clarified that the damage resulted from trail use while they were
      wet. Councilmember T. Lowery said yes, adding that she thought it was at this
      point when she thought the trails were closed. Mayor Walker said the trails
      were closed. The question was what the City could do to increase some
      enforcement to protect the investment in the trails. Councilmember T.
      Lowery said that was correct. Mr. Pogue felt like some of the trails might need
      to be completely rebuilt because of all of the postholes.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he would follow up with Chief Eining and Rhett Ogden,
      Director of Parks and Recreation, to come up with some ideas on what could
      be done to enforce trail closure.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if they knew which trails. Councilmember T.
      Lowery said that she felt like it was tricky because they didn’t want to single
      out a single group, they just wanted to be clear about trail closures. Perhaps
      it was something that the city needed to message a little bit better to the public
      in a newsletter or on the city’s Facebook page that the trails were closed,
      please don’t use them. This is the type of damage it causes and results in this
      much financial investment to repair before the summer.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he agreed that community communication
      was key. He said that not only was it a fiscal issue, but it was a safety issue,
      too. Councilmember T. Lowery said that the trails were Fango and Longview.

4.4   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was curious as things were starting to
      open up on if Draper had a timeline for when the city would be able to open
      up City Council meetings beyond a Zoom meeting.



                                   Page 19 of 38
      Mr. Dobbins said that staff would take the Council’s direction. He said that in
      the past it seemed like the Council wanted to continue to hold meetings via
      Zoom. He said that as the numbers drop and the mask mandate goes away,
      the Council would get more of a push for requests for people to attend in
      person. He said that staff had looked at a couple of options. They could limit
      in-person participation by numbers and space the chairs out. Perhaps 20
      chairs. Once they had 20 folks in attendance, everyone else would have to
      wait outside. He asked if that was something the Council wanted staff to start
      doing.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he felt like it was time to begin the
      discussion and start planning because he felt that as things were improving,
      the desire to re-open would move quickly. He said that he felt that the Council
      owed it to the public to be able to be physically a part of the process as soon
      as possible.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he knew that the County Council was voting
      on whether or not to extend the mask mandate in Salt Lake County.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that a lot of what the County decided could
      impact what Draper did.

      Mr. Dobbins said that he felt that they could very easily allow people in City
      Hall. Certain requirements would have to be imposed such as masks and
      social distancing. Those requirements would have to be imposed on the
      Council and staff. He said that he felt it would be really important to be
      consistent about what was done internally as with the public. He said that he
      could come up with some options. He said that he felt like they could look at
      implementing something starting in May.

4.5   Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, provided an overview on pavement
      maintenance. He said that the city spends a lot of money every year on this
      effort. This was about preserving existing pavement. It was not about
      reconstruction or new roads. It was all about trying to keep what roads the
      city has in decent or good condition and from deteriorating prematurely.
      Various tools could be used in this preservation effort.

      Mr. Cooley said that they were primarily talking about preserving the
      pavement of residential roads that were the big problem area. They don’t see

                                  Page 20 of 38
      a lot of traffic so they deteriorate on a slow scale compared to collector and
      arterial roads. Standard reconstruction was over $3.20 a square foot. The
      new method staff was using wherever they could was the full depth
      reconstruction method. That ran about $2.40 a square foot. The next method
      that was used, which was just a surface treatment is a slurry seal which ran
      about $0.22 a square foot. He said that the cost difference was substantial.
      That was the value in trying to preserve the pavement through surface
      applications.

      Mr. Cooley noted that the image displayed highlighted the areas that staff
      would be hitting this year with some type of surface treatment. He said that
      for the first time this year they were going to do something new to the city.
      They were going to combine two treatments to try and address some areas
      that were categorized as reconstruction only because they were in too poor of
      shape to apply a standard surface treatment, but were not quite bad enough
      to reconstruct. The method was called a cap seal that tried to get some
      emulsion into small cracks in the road. Mr. Cooley said that the two things
      that deteriorate a road were the sun and water. Getting the cracks sealed
      would be important. The crack seal that the city normally used had some
      limitations. He said the cap seal method had been quite successful in other
      areas. He said that the cost of the cap seal treatment was $0.47 a square foot,
      still significantly cheaper than reconstruction. There were two areas they were
      going to apply the new treatment.

      Mr. Cooley noted that there was a new machine that could level a road out.
      He said it didn’t mill the road, but rather milled it microscopically so that the
      road can be treated and come out smooth.

      He said that staff had a good system for preserving pavement and anticipated
      being able to do some reconstruction on residential roads beginning next
      year. The preservation projects’ total cost was just over $1 million. Typically,
      pavement preservation projects are a little bit more than that annually, but the
      staff was trying to save some money to be able to do more full reconstruction
      projects in 2022.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker



                                   Page 21 of 38
2.0   Proclamation: Child Abuse Prevention Month

      Mayor Walker read the Child Abuse Prevention Month Proclamation:

          Whereas the children of Draper are the future of our state’s success and
          investing in their general welfare, safety and livelihood are of utmost
          priority; and whereas all children deserve to grow up in a safe and
          nurturing environment to assure they reach their full potential as they
          grow and develop; and whereas the protection of children and the
          strengthening of families is of concern and responsibility of all Draper
          citizens because the wellness of children effects our lives now and will
          continue to affect our lives in the future; and whereas child abuse was a
          serious problem in the City of Draper last year with each case impacting
          an entire family and effecting the community as a whole; and whereas
          child abuse respects no racial, religious, social, economic or geographic
          boundaries; and whereas all citizens of Draper need to become more
          aware of child abuse and its prevention within their respective
          communities and actively encourage and support parents to raise their
          children in a safe and nurturing environment; and whereas preventing
          child abuse requires each member of the community to be attentive to the
          problems of families around them and commit to do everything they can
          to help; now therefore, I, Mayor Tory K. Walker mayor of the City of
          Draper, Utah do hereby proclaim April 2021 as Child Abuse Prevention
          Month. We call upon all our citizens to renew their commitment to being
          educated on the impact of child abuse and join in working for its
          prevention within our communities.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   Neil McGarry, resident, said that the Flight Park was at the end of Steep
      Mountain Drive. He said that recently the gate, which residents had worked
      very hard to get installed over the past year, had been vandalized. Residents
      heard that the gate was broken and was no longer closing and opening
      automatically. He wondered if the city could increase patrols until the gate
      was fixed. He also suggested that the city consider putting in some video
      surveillance on the gate now that there was power all the way out to the
      entrance of the park. He said that he knew that Councilmember T. Lowery
      was aware of the issue. He just wanted to inform the rest of the Council about



                                  Page 22 of 38
      the problems neighbors were still having at night with the gate being open and
      lots of people coming in and partying at all hours of the night.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of March 16, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes.
      b. Approval of Agreement #21-41, Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County
         for Traffic Signal Installation at 12200 S. Lone Peak Pkwy (125 W.)

4.1   Councilmember T.    Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-23, a Resolution of the Draper City Council
      appointing two members of the Administrative Control Board for the Traverse
      Ridge Special Service District.

5.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #21-23, appointing
      Simón Cantarero and Doug Pilkington to the Traverse Ridge Special Service
      District Administrative Control Board. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the
      motion.

5.2   Councilmember Roberts said that although the two candidates nominated for
      the TRSSD were good candidates, he thought that there was one other
      candidate who might have been a better option.

      Councilmember T. Lowery thanked all of the candidates for applying and going
      through the process. She felt like some great people came forward. The
      Council was always grateful for that.

      Councilmember F. Lowry echoed what Councilmember T. Lowery said. The
      Council appreciated any of the residents who were willing to put forth that they
      wanted to contribute to the city. It did not go unrecognized. He wanted to
      encourage the applicants to continue to look for opportunities to get involved
      in the community.

5.3   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  Page 23 of 38
6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1483, an ordinance vacating a portion of the Right-
      of-Way of Wildrye Field Way within Big Willow Creek Phase 1A Subdivision and
      a portion located within Big Willow Creek Phase 1B.

6.1   Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that Big Willow was an Ivory Homes
      development. He said that it was located near 700 West and 11400 South. The
      primary access to the development comes off of 11400 South. Currently, it
      was their only access. They were working on southernly access through the
      Jensen Farms subdivision. Shortly after the preliminary plat was approved, the
      developer acquired additional property to the east of the entrance onto 11400
      South. Subsequently, they started looking at the development of the land and
      how it would tie into the existing Big Willow subdivision and determined that
      the access road they currently had was not the prime location.

      Mr. Cooley presented a diagram that showed the original property, the newly
      acquired property, and the access road that exited 11400 South. Because of
      the additional access gained that connects to the existing road system, making
      the current right-of-way unnecessary. This has been known by both the
      developer and the city for a long time. The issue was being brought before the
      Council tonight because they want to make sure the City Council was okay with
      this to make sure they would be willing to vacate the right-of-way as they
      proceed with the construction of the new roadway.

      Mr. Cooley noted that there were conditions with the vacation. One of the
      conditions the developer would have to abide by was that they could not
      eliminate the access in any way until the new access was constructed and the
      plat was recorded the right-of-way would not be vacated. He emphasized that
      if the Council voted to vacate the right-of-way tonight it would not be vacated
      until other access was constructed. Ivory would also have to provide access to
      one lot whose single access was the current roadway. Staff had reached out
      to the owner of that lot and they did not indicate any issues with the change.
      Mr. Cooley said that if issues did come up in the future, the Council did not
      have to proceed with the recording of the vacation. Ivory Development had to
      meet the requirements before the city had to proceed with the vacation.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked where the property was located that was not
      a part of the parcel that Ivory Homes would need to grant an easement to. Mr.
      Cooley indicated a lot just off of the road with his pointer. He emphasized that

                                  Page 24 of 38
      it was the only lot that was not owned by Ivory Development. He said the
      parcel not owned by Ivory Development already had a perpetual easement.
      Ivory Homes would need to ensure that they had access to the new road. He
      reiterated that the developer was not changing the access point onto 11400
      South, they were just changing the courses of the road to get there.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if they needed to be concerned if the
      easement was granted. Mr. Cooley said that as long as the property owner
      was satisfied with the easement there was no concern. Staff would ensure the
      resident was satisfied.

      Mr. Cooley pointed out that staff had added a sentence in the ordinance that
      was included in the Council’s packet. The language read, “and the acceptance
      of the constructed Phase 6 public improvements by the city.” This meant that
      it was not just that the developer needed to record the plat. They needed to
      have the improvements constructed before staff would record the ordinance
      that would vacate the right-of-way. Vacating a right-of-way was a multistep
      process. First, the Council had to approve the ordinance, and then it had to be
      recorded. Until the right-of-way ordinance is recorded, the right-of-way is not
      vacated.

6.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

6.4   Jason Staples said that he was a resident in Big Willow. He asked that before
      there was a vote on this for changing the street and the access into the
      neighborhood that it is postponed until the review of the proposed
      development that Ivory had was considered and reviewed. He said that with
      100+ houses going in, plus another 100 townhomes proposed, he questioned
      if a single access point was sufficient. His other question was if a traffic study
      had been done concerning 11400 South. He asked if any lights would be
      placed at the access. He said as it stood now, having single access appeared
      to be insufficient.

6.5   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

6.6   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if Mr. Cooley could address some of the
      issues brought up by Mr. Staples. She said that it was her understanding when
      this was talked about in the past that there would be a light added. Mr. Cooley
      said that the access point was not changing. He said that regardless of if the

                                   Page 25 of 38
       road stayed where it was or went to the east, the traffic, and the impact onto
       11400 South would not be any different.

       Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there would be a light for the exchange.
       Mr. Cooley said that there was not a light at that point. There was a restrictive
       median on 11400 South. This made it so that you couldn’t turn left out of the
       subdivision. It was possible to turn left into the area. He said there was a
       second access point for Big Willow. They were constructing it through Jenson
       Farms. The culvert was being constructed and the bridge would follow. He
       said it was quite a structure they were undertaking. He said the Big Willow
       subdivision was limited to 30 units until the second access was provided. He
       said that even though there were more platted, additional structures could not
       be built until the second access was in place. By providing the second access,
       many of the issues on 11400 South would be alleviated.

       Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the secondary access would allow
       residents to exit onto 11400 South with a light. Mr. Cooley said that 11400
       South was a UDOT road and that UDOT did not plan to install a light. He said
       that there was a signal at 700 West. The secondary access would go out onto
       700 West which could lead residents to the signal to turn onto 11400 South.

6.7    Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Mr. Cooley was representing the applicant.
       Mr. Cooley said that the applicant was online, but was not planning on saying
       anything unless the Council wanted to hear from him. He also told
       Councilmember T. Lowery that they had reviewed the road application. The
       road application had not been approved, but staff had provided enough
       comments that the Engineering Department was comfortable with the
       application.

6.8    Bryon Prince, with Ivory Development, said that he appreciated Mr. Cooley’s
       thorough review. He felt like what Mr. Cooley said was accurate. He said he
       would be happy to answer any questions the Council had.

6.9    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1483, and adding the
       verbiage of “and the acceptance of the constructed Phase 6 public
       improvements by the city.” Councilmember F. Lowry seconded the motion.

6.10   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

                                    Page 26 of 38
7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1485, an ordinance of Draper City amending the
      text Section 9-23-110 of the land use and development code of Draper City
      Municipal Code relating to landscaping and hedgerows in land use buffers.

7.1   Todd Draper, Planner, said the amendment was based on concerns of the
      Planning Commission and City Council when the land use buffer changes were
      brought before both bodies. Concerns were focused on the ability of the
      Planning Commission to consider hedgerows that were 5’ tall in place of an 8’
      fence. The change to the code simply removed hedgerows as a potential
      consideration by the Planning Commission when approving deviations to land
      use buffer requirements. Additional clarifications are provided that any
      approved reduction in land use buffer width may not include reductions to the
      quantity or quality of landscaping associated with the buffer area.

      Mr. Draper displayed the full text and its amendments of the code. The
      Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation from their March
      25, 2021 meeting with a vote of 5-0.

7.2   Councilmember T. Lowery thanked Mr. Draper and staff because she felt this
      was a change for the better.

7.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing, no one came forward.          Mayor
      Walker closed the public hearing.

7.4   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Ordinance #1485, amending the
      text of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to landscaping and hedgerows
      in land use buffers. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-13, on the request of Dave Mast, representing DJ
      Investment Group LLC, for a ninth amendment to the Development
      Agreement for Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain Estates, and
      Lakeview Heights. This amendment will modify fencing standards within the
      Lone Peak Canyon phase of Hidden Canyon Estates, located generally at 2563
      East Canyon Edge Drive.



                                 Page 27 of 38
8.1   Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, said that in 2015 the City Council entered
      into a development agreement with the applicant for several developments
      that were on top of the mountain. Hidden Canyon Estates was one of them.
      The majority of Hidden Canyon Estates was already completed. Lone Peak
      Canyon was the final phase in the Hidden Canyon Estates. She oriented the
      Council to the location of Hidden Canyon estates relative to SunCrest Drive
      and indicated the portion of the property that remained to be developed in
      the Lone Peak section of the development.

      Ms. Jastremsky continued that the last phase of development was surrounded
      by City-owned property and open space, the majority of which was in a
      conservation easement. The existing development agreement required the
      developer to install wrought iron fencing along the boundaries in the Hidden
      Canyon Estate and Mercer Mountain Estate developments where the property
      is adjacent to City-owned property before issuance of building permits for the
      phase of subdivision development to avoid encroachment. The previous
      development phases were completed by Edge Homes. They did the site
      improvements, graded the lots, and built the homes. Lone Peak Canyon was
      a little different. The developer came in and installed the public roads and
      utilities, but was going to sell each lot to people to build custom homes.
      Because of this, they would rather not install the wrought iron fencing when
      homeowners would come in and grade their lots with their individual
      construction one at a time.

      The proposal before the Council with the development agreement would allow
      for individual homeowners or property owners to install a temporary, chain
      link fence along the property line adjacent to city property before pulling the
      building permit. This would ensure that there was not any encroachment. The
      permanent wrought iron fence would be required to be installed before
      occupancy of the home. This would ensure the protection from possible
      encroachment during construction and ensure that the city got the wrought
      iron fence before occupancy.

      Ms. Jastremsky displayed the language. She said that it indicated that the
      property owner was responsible for ensuring the property lines. Staff,
      however, had gone out and checked the survey marks along city property to
      verify that the developer had marked property lines correctly. Staff confirmed
      they had been marked correctly so the fences should be appropriately placed.



                                  Page 28 of 38
      Councilmember T. Lowery confirmed that the fence would be consistent
      across the homes in all phases of the development. Ms. Jastremsky said that
      was correct.

8.2   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Resolution #21-13, for a ninth
      amendment to the Development Agreement for Hidden Canyon Estates,
      Mercer Mountain Estates, and Lakeview Heights. Councilmember T. Lowery
      seconded the motion.

8.3   Councilmember F. Lowry said that his biggest concern was to make sure that
      the property lines were properly identified. He said he appreciated that Ms.
      Jastremsky had confirmed them.

8.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1482, adopting a Transportation Impact Fee
      Facilities Plan (IFFP) and a Transportation Impact Fee Analysis (IFA); providing
      a Transportation Impact Fee Enactment; providing a Transportation Impact
      Fee; establishing a service area; providing for Impact Fee calculations and
      imposition on development activity; and providing for other matters as
      required by the Impact Fee Act.

9.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said that Ordinance #1482 allowed for the review
      of the Transportation Impact Fee. He said that the city had been working on
      this for a year and a half. He said that there were a few things the Council
      needed to look at in the ordinance.

      The first item was the Impact Fee Facilities Plan (IFFP). The city contracted with
      Parametrics to perform the facilities plan. The second item was the Impact Fee
      Analysis (IFA). The city contracted with Lewis, Young, Robertson, and
      Burningham. This analysis was what came up with the transportation impact
      fee.

      Mr. Wylie pointed the Council towards Table 1 of the IFA “Transportation
      Impact Fee.” He explained that there used to be two impact fee areas: areas A
      and B. The new impact fee would be one combined service area.




                                   Page 29 of 38
       The IFFP outlined the proposed fee. The IFFP and the IFA were discussed with
       the City Council on February 2, 2021, during a work session. He said that the
       new proposed fee had a reduction in all of the categories. The ordinance
       would satisfy Utah Code 11-16-36a regarding impact fees. The IFFP was
       projected out to the year 2050 with the projects that had been involved. He
       said that the IFFP did identify about $14 million in projects with $5.2 million
       presenting into the impact fee.

9.2    Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor
       Walker closed the public hearing.

9.3    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1482 adopting a
       Transportation Impact Fee, providing a Transportation Impact Fee Enactment;
       providing a Transportation Impact Fee; Establishing a service area; providing
       for Impact Fee calculations and imposition on development activity; and
       providing for other matters as required by the Impact Fee Act.
       Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.4    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1486, an ordinance amending Title 3 of the Draper
       City Municipal Code regarding general rules for city committees and
       designating the number of members of the Historic Preservation Commission
       constituting a quorum.

10.1   Mr. Barker explained that the ordinance proposed to do three things:

       1. Amendment to Draper Municipal Code (DCMC) 3-1-150 would expand the
          scope of what the city called “subordinate bodies” that the City Council can
          create to assist in administering the city. The current list of bodies including
          agencies, boards, bureaus, committees, or commissions would be replaced
          by “any subordinate body.” The reason behind this change was that the
          listed language limited the types of bodies that could be created.

       2. Amendment to DCMC 3-1-60 would clarify general rules for all committees.
          This section of the code already had some common rules for all
          committees. New language (indicated by underline) included that:



                                    Page 30 of 38
             a. Committees are advisory and do not speak or act on behalf of the
                city.
             b. Members are appointed to four-year terms by the Mayor with the
                advice and consent of the City Council.
             c. Chairs appointed by the Mayor are to serve two-year terms.
             d. Committees may appoint a vice-chair.
             e. City Council may remove members.
             f. Members are not compensated.
             g. Follow OPMA and GRAMA, who can convene a meeting.
             h. City Council may allocate funds and direct how funds are spent.
             i. A city employee is assigned as an advisor for each committee.
             j. A quorum is three members. All motions require three affirmative
                votes or a majority of members present, whichever is greater.
             k. May conduct electronic meetings.



       3. Amendment to DCMC 3-1-180 would change the minimum number of
          members on the Historic Preservation Committee to three and stated that
          a quorum is three members.

       Mr. Barker noted that this was the first part of an overhaul of these provisions
       regarding boards and commissions. He said that staff anticipated the second
       part of this text amendment would be before the Council at its next meeting.

10.2   Mayor Walker asked to look at the changes made to DCMC 3-1-160. He wanted
       to know if these changes would apply to all committees. Mr. Barker said that
       Mr. DuShane had taken the lead on this project. He said that there might be
       some name changes so that there were three primary names: agencies,
       commissions, and committees. He said that there were some definitional
       things associated with calling an entity a board that implied they had more
       administrative authority. He said that the Planning Commission and the
       Historic Preservation Commission would address some of the rules for their
       entities internally with a section of the code specific to those bodies. The
       amendments to DCMC 3-1-160 would apply to all entities that just had advisory
       power. Both the Planning Commission and the Historic Preservation
       Commission had the authority to make some final decisions.

       Mayor Walker said that he had three concerns. First, he wanted to know if the
       Council wanted term limits on committees. Two, if someone from the Historic

                                   Page 31 of 38
Preservation Commission was talking to the press on behalf of the city, thus
creating a problem that warranted removal, should that removal come back
to the Council, or should that removal be the responsibility of the mayor?

Mr. Barker said that the code currently read such that the removal of
committee and commission members was the responsibility of the mayor.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the removal of a committee or commission
member could be worded in the same way as a member’s appointment. For
example, committee members may be removed by the mayor with the advice
of the City Council. Mr. Barker said that he thought so. He said that he had
not looked into the state code to see if anything applied to that situation.

Councilmember Green felt like the mayor should be able to make the decision,
but that if the person removed wanted to appeal then they could come to the
Council. He said that he would rather that the mayor was just able to decide
since he was the person who appointed the member in the first place. Mr.
Barker said that the only issue he had with that was that it almost gave the
committee member a property right and a right of due process. He said that
he didn’t think that committee members had that. The process would be a
new and novel approach.

Councilmember Roberts said that he would like to see the removal process
streamlined to give the mayor more authority to remove committee members.
Mr. Barker said that assuming no impediment in state law would bar the ability
to give the mayor more authority, it was something that staff could bring back
to the Council with next week’s amendments.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that he liked the idea of term limits. He felt like
that was important for committee chairs. He said that he had a concern about
putting term limits to serving on a particular committee because there were
some committees where if term limits were applied they wouldn’t have a
committee soon. However, there were other committees where there were
people on a waiting list for the opportunity to serve.

Mayor Walker said that was the question: how do you give more people who
want to serve the opportunity to do so? Councilmember Roberts said that he
heard Councilmember F. Lowry’s point, but that he supported term limits. He
felt like there should be more frequent turnover on some of the committees.

                            Page 32 of 38
He heard his fellow councilmember’s point and did think that was something
to be considered.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there were no new applicants if those who
had met their term limit could be reappointed. Councilmember T. Lowery said
that brought up the question if committee members should have a four-year
term. She said that if terms were reduced to three or two years there would
be more fluctuation. She asked if everyone on the new diversity board was
serving four-year terms.

Mr. Dobbins said they were staggered at the beginning so that they didn’t all
end at the same time. Members were serving four- and two-year terms. After
those serving two-year terms were replaced they became four-year terms.

Councilmember F. Lowry brought up the question about the City Council
setting the number of members. He asked if the Council wanted to adjust the
number of members on a committee if it required an action item at a Council
Meeting.

Mr. Barker said that it would. He said that what was seen was that some
committees were more popular than others. Some people were invested in
an issue and were happy to serve as long as they could. For others, the
number of members required was set too high and there was not enough
interest by the community to staff that committee.

Councilmember Vawdrey said that she thought that was a concern with term
limits. Baring wildly popular committees, the rest were struggling to get a
quorum. Further, she thought that when a four-year term comes up, the
mayor should re-evaluate if people were fine.

Mayor Walker said that maybe he should have his policy about how he figured
out the number of terms people could serve. Mr. Barker said that yes if
someone got to the end of their term, the mayor had the inherent authority to
not reappoint. In other words, the mayor was already the gatekeeper to term
limits.

Councilmember F. Lowry provided a current example of the Tree Commission.
He said that the commission had met that morning. The chair mentioned that
there were a few members who had been appointed to that committee that

                           Page 33 of 38
had not been responsive the last few months. The chair had reached out to
those members to see if they were interested in continuing. At the same time,
there was a list of individuals who had expressed interest in being on the
commission. The Tree Commission chair wanted to know the process to get
the individuals who were not participating removed so that they could get the
new ones in.

Mayor Walker summarized that they needed to clarify the ability to remove
someone who was not participating and the ability to remove someone who
was not following the rules.

Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the conditions for removal had to be
formalized by outlining the number of meetings missed, etc. Mr. Barker said
that he had seen that in ordinances in other cities. Some read that if you miss
a third of the meetings you have abandoned your spot.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that there could be special circumstances that
could be considered.

Councilmember Vawdrey said that if a chair let staff or the Council know of a
problem, could the city not send out a letter or make contact to inquire if
someone wanted to continue in the position. Those who were no longer
interested could be removed or resign.

Mayor Walker said that the Parks and Trails Committee was an excellent
example. There was an expectation that once you get on it you just keep
serving and serving and serving. He said that some people had been on for a
long time. He wanted to balance the committee a little bit with more women
to give it more perspective.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that was an excellent point. She said that there
were lots of people who were waiting for turns. As much as the Council values
the people who currently serve, she felt like it was equally important to give a
new voice.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that there were applicants for the TRSSD who
were showing interest in the city and who would be interested in serving in
another area.



                            Page 34 of 38
Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt as though there was a similar
situation with the Planning Commission. There were plenty of people who
were interested in serving on the Planning Commission.

Mr. Barker said that there were some applicants and those who served as
alternates who were very invested in that service.

Mayor Walker said that he did not mind moving alternates up. However, he
would like a term limit on some committees and commissions so that it wasn’t
arbitrary for him. He didn’t want to be accused of someone being removed
based on personal reasons. He wanted to know who the longest-serving
planning commissioner was and how long they had served. Mr. Dobbins said
that the longest-serving member had probably served two or three terms.

Councilmember Roberts asked if term limits could be attached to certain
committees and have others that had less interest go without term limits. Mr.
Barker said that the term limit was two four-year terms. That would give the
mayor the ability to replace at the end of the first term.

Councilmember Roberts said that he liked having some kind of mechanism
that was less arbitrary around some of the committees. Councilmember T.
Lowery said that she agreed with that. She felt there should be a little bit of
accountability too. She said that if someone was not showing up to events or
workdays, or was consistently missing meetings, that would be an indication
that someone should be removed.

Mayor Walker asked how most cities handled the Planning Commission. He
asked if the long-serving commissioner was typical in most cities. Mr. Dobbins
said that he thought that Planning Commission was different because the
education piece was lengthy and changed quite a bit. The experience was
valuable to have.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that the history of being able to understand
what had happened over the years was also important. Longstanding
members provide a different and helpful perspective. That perspective can
also be detrimental because a longstanding member can develop an influence
that wasn’t healthy. He said that you had to get new ideas. That was part of
his thinking for the TRSSD; it might be good the get someone who was fresh
and new to the city.

                            Page 35 of 38
Councilmember T. Lowery said that was part of the reason why they picked
Councilmember Roberts for the TRSSD. He was fresh and look at where he
was now.

Mayor Walker said that the key point was that these committees and
commissions knew that they did not speak for the Council, ever! It wasn’t their
job. They did not get to go to the press independently and make statements
or speak for the Council. It needed to be clear that if a committee or
commission member did that, they were done.

Mr. Barker said that the way the language was drafted, removal is without
cause. He said it could be a simple process. The mayor did not have to wait
for malfeasance. If someone was not showing up, he thought that was where
a chair could step in to communicate to the Council and mayor that someone
needed to be removed to make room for someone on the waiting list.

Mayor Walker said that regarding the Planning Commission he felt like it made
sense to move alternates into the regular spots because they have vested a lot
of time, education, and training. Mr. Barker said that to their credit, alternates
come out to every meeting and often just sit, observe, and not participate
because all of the regular members were in attendance.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like there was an opportunity with
the new Communications Director to do a little bit more public outreach for
some of the committees with lower interest. She said she thought that people
would step up and volunteer for some of the committees if they knew about
them. Councilmember F. Lowry said he thought that was a big thing: knowing
about availability to participate.

Mayor Walker said that he thought they had some committees that were doing
great stuff. He cited the Tree Commission, the Historic Preservation
Commission, and the Diversity Board.

Councilmember T. Lowery said that the Arena Board was going to have a great
concert, it just got killed by the pandemic.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that just like they recently created the Diversity
and Inclusion Board, there might be other new committees that needed to be

                             Page 36 of 38
       created as the city changed. He asked if there was anything that prevented
       the Council from creating new committees.

       Councilmember Vawdrey asked if the ordinance needed to be passed. Mr.
       Dobbins said that some of this would be valuable to have done right now.
       Without the part about speaking on behalf of the city, that was not in the code
       at all. He preferred that the Council adopt the ordinance and then staff bring
       it back for additional amendments.

10.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1486, amending
       Draper City Municipal Code regarding general rules for city committees and
       designating the number of members of the Historic Preservation Commission
       constituting a quorum. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

10.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

**     Chief Clint Smith wanted to provide the Council with an update on the new
       firefighter hires and training process. He reminded the Council that the
       additional six positions were approved by the Council in January. Those six
       positions, along with one vacancy were hired for a total of seven new hires.
       They had been in the recruit training process and combined camp hosted out
       in West Valley with other new hires by West Valley, West Jordan, and South
       Jordan Fire Departments. There were 14 total trainees in the camp, half of
       whom were Draper firefighters. He said that all seven hires had been
       performing well and had actually been the leaders and at the top of their class
       while out there. The trainees were nearing the end of the fire training process.
       They would graduate from the fire training academy next Thursday at 1:00
       p.m. He wanted to make the Council aware of that and extend an invitation.
       He was just made aware tonight that they were looking for a new venue to
       host the graduation. He would get the information to the Council as soon as
       he had the information. There would be one additional in-house week of
       medical training before the recruits hit the streets at the end of April. He said
       that the department was very excited to have these new folks as part of the
       team and fire family.

**     Mr. Dobbins wanted to introduce Linda Peterson, Draper’s new
       Communications Director. He said that she had spent 15 years with the City



                                    Page 37 of 38
       of Eagle Mountain. He was looking forward to having her as a part of the
       Draper team.

11.0   Adjournment

11.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.         Councilmember F.
       Lowry seconded the motion.

11.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

11.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:14 p.m.




                                  Page 38 of 38
