Draft minutes 10/14/2021
MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING:        Chairperson Andrew Adams, Commissioners Lisa Fowler and Gary
                      Ogden, and Alternate Commissioners Susan Nixon and DeLaina Tonks

ABSENT:               Vice Chairperson Craig Hawker, Commissioners Mary Squire and John
                      Van Hoff, Alternate Commissioner Tab Bingham

STAFF PRESENT:        Jennifer Jastremsky, Mike Barker, Brien Maxfield, Spencer DuShane,
                      Amie Salazar, Maryann Pickering and Don Buckley

6:30 PM Business Meeting:


1.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 26, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to approve the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for August 26, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

2.     Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for September 9, 2021
       (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the Planning Commission Meeting
Minutes for September 9, 2021, with changes discussed in the meeting.

Second: Commissioner Ogden

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Ogden, Fowler, Tonks, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

3.     Public Hearing: Crosspoint CSD Zoning Text and Map Amendments (Legislative
       Action)

On the request of Ralph Johnson of Utah Capital LLC to create a new commercial special district
and rezone the subject property the Crosspoint Commercial Special District. The proposed district
standards will be located in Chapter 9-18 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) and the new
zoning designation would be Crosspoint Commercial Special District (CSD-CP). The property is
located at approximately 166 E. Highland Drive in the Regional Commercial (CR) zoning district.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 2

Applications: TA-051-2018 and GPMA-002-2018. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-
6391 or maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Commissioner Ogden recused himself because of a personal relationship with the applicant.

Maryann Pickering, Planner presented the project is located at Highland Drive and Traverse Road,
the current land use is Community Commercial, and the current zoning is CR (Regional
Commercial). This is a zoning map amendment and a text amendment for a new commercial
special district zone. There was a hearing last December and some concerns were addressed and
changed. Some highlights are a maximum of three multi story high office buildings up to four
stories in height, capped at 60-feet with mechanical screening up to 10 feet, retail can be 22-feet
tall, access is along 65 East, and access points are on Highland and one on Traverse. There had
been approval from the City Engineer to install a traffic signal that was found necessary after a
traffic study. The developer will work with the city to have it installed. She discussed the CSD and
that the Zoning Administrator could approve or deny applications. There are several uses proposed,
and all are permitted. The primary use is office building along Highland Drive and Traverse, it
includes four buildings that are identified to have drive throughs. There are office buildings to west
in Scenic Pointe up to 72 feet tall. The landscaping percent is 20%- and 20-foot buffer between
this site and the residential areas to the south. There is a cross access to the south at Seasons. She
showed the concept plan described the cross accesses. She continues to describe the site map and
offered to answer questions.

Commissioner Fowler asked to go over points and highlight what staff wanted to change about the
CSD.

Maryann Pickering, Planner stated in the CSD some of the standards do not comply with the
current zoning code. The applicant made changes to the landscaping, buffer, and height limitations.

Commissioner Fowler noted there were more negatives than stated.

Maryann Pickering noted that they believe the cross access should be two way and there is more
signage than is allowed in the code. They want two monument sign per building. The current code
allows for one per building and some CSD’s have additional monument signs allowed.

She noted that there is a section on retaining walls that says a third party can do some of the
reviews.

Brien Maxfield City Engineer, we recommend the city code without any modification.

Fire Marshal Don Buckley stated that from a health and life safety standpoint at Seasons from the
south and two-way access is needed for evacuation and to eliminate traffic congestion.

Applicant, Ralph Johnson read a paragraph of public comment sent to him by the city. 166 E
Highland Drive near health equity buildings…noting that this would devalue the homes. He noted
that what he is really proposing and how it will benefit the city. He noted on the incline and the


                                                  2
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 3

slope requires three plateaus. He noted the height of buildings are intended to be two or three
stories. He noted the retail is at the top on the third plateau. He noted that the setbacks from the
buildings to homes is more than a football field length. He stated that in their packet on page three
there is a comment regarding connection with trails. He noted it was intended to allow people a
way to pass through the property. He stated they can remove their note. He noted that medical
cannabis is required by state law and talked about the retail building height being 22 feet and was
originally in a project with multi tenants. He noted it may or may not be that high. He noted on the
concerns from staff with high efficiency glass. He noted on the primary building material not
meeting 75 % but he noted they are 100% primary materials.

He noted the name being Park or the Crosspoint location. He noted on page seven there were staff
concerns about landscaping. He noted they can commit to the landscaping, and he noted that on
some plateaus there would be more or less landscaping in different areas. He stated they are willing
to enter into any agreement that will allow them to do so. He noted on parking and the number
based on usable square feet and stated a formula created that it is everywhere except mechanical
and technical areas. He stated the length of parking, and the islands match 18 feet. He noted that
on page nine the lighting standard is different, and they will change to what is already in the code.
He noted the energy conservation comment will be removed. He noted there will be one monument
sign for office buildings but for the medical building there would be two signs. He stated they were
grateful for Ms. Pickering’s suggestions. He noted they like the idea of having signs like the regular
standards. He stated that they do know the parallel and perpendiculars and that felt most thoughtful
at the time. He continued to discuss the signage and different scenarios pertaining to leases.

He noted that the major points were that this is a conceptual comparison to what is next door. He
noted on heights and that the medical building was going to be two to three stories not four. He
stated they are sensitive to others’ views and noted that at Chandler Point they met and talked
about the buildings being perpendicular to highland drive so no views are blocked. They
discovered that at the lowest point at Chandler Point that is 15 feet higher than the ground where
the building will be built, and the perception is the building is one floor lower when looked at from
Chandler Point perspective. He continued that there were several scenarios of perspectives like
this. He noted they are trying and want to communicate that the views are not going to be
prevented. He pointed out the cross accesses. He noted that they were wanting to give the
apartments the ability to access a four-way access point at a traffic signal. He stated they have tried
to be an asset and not an ugly project and thanked them for their time.

Maryann Pickering, Planner discussed that the CSD is a commercial special district where a
developer presents their own development standards, and in this case for the proposed 60 foot
building heights. The CSD is specific to just that property

Chairman Adams asked if commercial applicants could apply for a new zone change.

Maryann Pickering, Planner indicated a landowner can request a text amendment and zone change
to the CSD. She noted another project that went through this process and indicated it was the same
applicant.



                                                  3
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 4

Chairman Adams asked if the site plan can change.

Maryann Pickering stated that this is a concept plan that may change a little, but they will still have
to engineer the site to be substantially similar.

Ralph Johnson stated they have already done geotechnical studies on this property to make sure
the site will meet their proposal. He indicated the test pits were competed in the building pads.
They will need to go through the site plan process as well.

Commissioner Fowler asked for clarification on the location of the fire gate. Ralph Johnson
showed on the plan where its location is. He mentioned it was always intended to be the second
fire access and is now functioning. He described the traffic flow of the site and added that there
will be three ways through the site. The road is 24 feet wide and state code requires 26 feet.

Commissioner Fowler commented she wants to see a clean document which reflects the comments.

Ralph Johnson suggested they hold the public hearing and then make a decision in the next
meeting.

Don Buckley stated in the body of the state code it calls for 20 feet but in the appendices of the
code it calls for 26 feet. The city has adopted the appendices.

Ralph Johnson replied that it would be difficult to do 26 feet as it will make the site too steep. He
mentioned there is a process to request a variance by having a geotechnical engineer provide a
study and if the city agrees it can be approved.

Commissioner Adams asked if the application was continued in the past.

Maryann Pickering stated that it was, but it was a year ago and they need to have another public
hearing as the time has passed. They can make a recommendation that changes be made to the text.

Chair Adams discussed the timeline with others. He discussed setting a deadline because it had
been over a year with this project.

Ralph Johnson commented on a building in Texas his partner was working on. He thanked them.

Commissioner Adams commented on the amount of power the commissioners had and this was a
sounding board.

Mike Barker commented about details pertaining to the fire code. He noted the fire code will
establish the minimum.

Commissioner Adams opened the public hearing.




                                                  4
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 5

Janica Lee, resident of Lehi commented, on paragliding. She noted on her history living in
California and being a paragliding pilot. She noted on civilization in ancient culture and a broken
femur being healed means someone has taken care of the other person. Her concern was about the
zoning regulations being higher than 45 feet. She asked they hold tight to their values.

Name not stated resident commented on Mr. Johnson’s comments. She noted as you exit Traverse
Road you cannot turn left. She asked if there was prospect for an island to be able to go left towards
Highland drive.

Joycelyn Araya, 14757 Granite Ridge Lane, President of the HOA at Chandler Point commented
thanked them. She stated that he is asking to build higher has negative impacts on their property
values. She stated that she wants to welcome him but asked him stay in the city code. She noted
on the monumental signs and the lights. She asked they consider that people live right there. She
noted on fire and how quickly it travels, and the effects higher builds would have on this and
traffic. She noted to stay within the 45 feet.

Mark Holliday, 14852 S. Oxcart Lane, noted he was concerned about the development, problem
here the increase in height comes at a cost. He asked that they follow the zoning. He noted the
height comes at a cost to the residents. He asked the benefit that directly impacted residents. He
noted that the property is usually littered with old furniture and noted there have been basic things
neglected by the property owner.

John Pane, 14884 Ox Cart, Draper citizen. He stated that I do not live on site. He said will be an
asset or a willing to go by state laws. I am a capitalist. He stated he understood why they did this
was to make more money. He noted that the scenic views add to the rental value of his properties
at Chandler Point. He noted that he has millions of dollars tied up in Chandler Point and the
building Height being raised was directly taking money from them.

Jason Wallace, 38 East Manilla Circle, He stated he was only concerned about the heights of the
building. He asked the commission not to allow the height to be changed.

Nicole Kendrick, 14817 S. Granite Ridge Lane, she asked if they really need the land developed
but needed to decide if they were needed and a benefit to the community.

Joseph Bostick stated he was a pilot and trained architect. He noted that a wind study has not been
done as a part of the proposal.

Walt Medlin resident at 1129 E Sunset Dunes Way, over the south mountain golf course, terms of
views. I am a paraglider pilot. He stated that exemptions should benefit the whole community.

Tim Curry 14951 Oxcart Lane in Chandler Pointe. He stated that he comes from California. He
was concerned about pure water usage.

Chris Hunlow 12 East Duchesne Circle stated that he was wondering if other developments will
piggyback on this development. He asked they stop making exceptions to the zoning.


                                                  5
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 6

Jason Walton 1509 E. Manilla Drive is a homeowner and he stated he would rather see restrictions
for the flyers coming down than for the buildings going up. He was excited for the new
development. He felt seeing Plural Sight utilize the property was great. He appreciated the effort
in putting something in there.

Rob Cooper, Suncrest 2007 [inaudible] Court. He noted with the buildings that tall it will hinder
flying. He noted that this is outrageous and not a capitalist

Mary Ellen Holliday, 14852 Ox Cart Lane she noted that they do not hinder progress but follow
rules. She stated stay with the plan.

Becca Tellor, 10540 South Silver Mountain Road, she owns a hang-gliding business and asked
them to keep them in mind as they make decisions.

Ken Jorgensen, 474 E. Tonya Drive, live in Sandy noted that he moved for the flying, he noted he
teaches paragliding, and it is the greatest job ever. He stated that this was all dirt in 1989, there
were dirt roads. The only way I could get a home there was to put a tent, concerned about buildings
disrupting the airflow. He was concerned that the buildings would make it more difficult to stay
safe. He noted they have clean airflow, and this allows them to stay safe and the building could
hinder this.

Travis Williams, 12378 S. Wildflower Lane, Draper, He noted that he grew up in Salt Lake and
lives in Highland now. He noted that he is an entrepreneur and excited about this project. He noted
that it would be great if the project could be worked out to benefit everyone.

Sam Wilkinson 358 Steep Mountain Drive founded Wilkinson Capitol Partners that provides
support for local businesses. He noted that for the last two years he has had the honor of working
with Ralph Johnson. He noted that two years ago they did a feasibility study, and the hospital and
emergency room could provide services needed that are convenient. He noted that this will provide
immediate care to those recreating at the point. He noted that they should expedite the project
because these exceptions had been provided to other projects. He noted there would be services
and restaurants provided to the residents.

Angilla Bovo, 11299 Mule Hollow Lane in Brighton, Utah. She moved to Utah to learn to
paraglide with her veteran brothers who do this for therapy. She noted that those injured on the hill
have access to a flight helicopter that is going to get them to the trauma center at the hospital
quickly. She stated the hospital is not built for the needs of the area. She noted this area was world
renowned.

Peter Wilcox 14753 Granite Ridge Lane stated he pays a premium for my views and happy to do
that. He noted that some have sold for almost 500k for the homes without the views. He noted that
some will lose property value who have just bought homes.

Ann Marie Barrett, 14839 Oxcart Lane. She stated that she is concerned with the traffic flow. She
noted that on 65 East it can get scary and the more cars you add even with the signal they will get


                                                  6
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 7

more accidents. She noted adding floors will add safety risk. She stated that having additional
medical services is wonderful, but she asked how they will mitigate sound next to a residential
area. She is not in opposition but that they need to address the concerns. She noted that she was
concerned that someone would state that the plan would be changed to their detriment if they do
not cave in.

Chad Wink, 14968 S. Manilla Drive, he noted his one concern was the height of the building and
that other developments can be adopted into the special district. He stated that the properties that
had the view is 150k in resale value on the home. He noted he was excited about the development.

Jenny Kennedy, 19777 Chandler Point Way, state that she had bought the home with the view
because the resale value would be negatively impacted. She noted that she was concerned that the
properties being moved closer was a retaliation towards them.

Commissioner Adams closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Tonks thanked the public for attending and providing their input.

Commissioner Adams invited the applicant back up.

Mr. Johnson indicated that the geotechnical reports were completed for the current building pads
and as long as he owns the property the buildings will not be moved closer to the housing. He
mentioned there seems to be a lot of fear over 15 feet. He commented that he has owned the
property for 20 years and it was subject to a master plan that allowed six stories and a tall tower
up to ten stories. That was his expectation when he purchased the property. He mentioned he pays
$90,000 a year to the tax pay and would like to put the property to use.

Commissioner Fowler stated that the residents only want 45 feet of building from grade and not
the slope of Chandler Point. She asked why he is proposing 60 feet.

Mr. Johnson explained the concept of scale in development and indicated there is a lot of area in
the building that does not get rented out. Scale is important to reduce the unrentable portions of
the building.

Commissioner Fowler asked regarding the trash on the property and that residents don’t trust him
because of how the property looks. She asked if he would be willing to have the lot cleaned.

Mr. Johnson stated that following the last hearing they went out and hauled away refuse that was
discarded there. He stated that they have even removed vehicles that were left on the property. He
mentioned someone had started a fire on the property and they called the authorities.

Chairman Adams asked if they have completed a wind study and if they came up in the past.

Mr. Johnson stated that the placement of the building is around the corner from where people are
hang gliding and they felt completing a wind study was not necessary.


                                                 7
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 8


Commissioner Nixon asked if there would be an ambulance coming to the site for the micro
hospital.

Sam Wilkinson, associate of the applicant, stated the practice would be to turn down the sirens
once they are out of traffic and there will be a helipad.

Chairman Adams listed the items the applicant was suggesting covering in their development,
including height, size of signs, water usage, wind study, small businesses, traffic, helicopters,
noise, and value of views.

Commissioner Nixon stated they should discuss the public benefit to the surrounding
neighborhoods from the development. It was mentioned there would be better circulation.

Commissioner Fowler stated she is interested in discussing the items staff would like to change in
the development agreement. She mentioned the applicant said he would remove the high efficiency
glass or that they can only build 45-foot building.

Chairman Adams stated they should put the things in the motion they are concerned with, and staff
can work on the other items. Height is a concern and was reduced down to 45 feet by the city.

Commissioner Fowler stated she is leaning towards allowing up to 45 feet in height.

Commissioner Tonks indicated she agrees with this, and the height was the biggest concern.

Commissioner Nixon agreed at keeping the height at 45 feet and asked if they would allow
additional height for a parapet wall.

Commissioner Fowler clarified the building would be 45 feet and have a 10-foot screen. The length
of the spaces would be listed as 18 feet and one monument sign per building. The way finding
signs should be considered informational signs, the retaining wall should follow city codes and the
cross access with Seasons needs to be widened to 24 feet. The fire marshal is requesting up to 26
feet.

Jennifer Jastremsky mentioned that the city code requires a width of 26 feet.

Commissioner Nixon asked that setbacks be included for all of the streets and that the Draper code
should be followed for lighting.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Crosspoint CSD Zoning Text Amendment request, as requested by Ralph
Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, Application TA-051-2018, as modified by the following:
   • Remove the high efficiency glass language
   • Noting that setbacks shall be 20 feet from all streets
   • Length of parking spaces shall be 18 feet


                                                8
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 9

       •   Lighting shall meet DCMC
       •   One monument sign will be allowed per office building
       •   Phrasing for way finding signs will be for informational signs
       •   The retaining shall meet DCMC
       •   The ingress/egress lane with Seasons shall contain a width of 26 feet
       •   Building height will be limited to 45 feet with a 10-foot screen for mechanical
           equipment

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Nixon, and Fowler voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Ogden recused
himself.

----

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to forward a positive recommendation to City
Council for the Crosspoint CSD Zoning Map Amendment request, as requested by Ralph
Johnson of Utah Capital LLC, Application GPM-002-2018, based on the findings listed in
the staff report, dated September 26, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Nixon, and Fowler voted, “Aye”. Commissioner Ogden recused
himself.

----

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to move item six of the agenda to the next item in
the agenda.

Second: Commissioner Fowler

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 3-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Nixon, Ogden and Fowler voted, “Aye”.


4.         Public Hearing: 7th East Office Building Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
           Action)

On the request of Ben Clifford, representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea Fitzgerald Trust, a
Zoning Map Amendment request from RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² minimum lot
size) to CN (Neighborhood Commercial), on approximately 1.0 acres, located at 12071 S. 700 E.,



                                               9
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 10

known as application TEXTMAP-0139-2021. Staff contact Todd Draper, (801) 576-6335,
todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager presented the staff report. The property is located on the
corner of 7th East and 12100 South and contains a size of one acre. The land use designation is
Neighborhood Commercial, and zoning is RA1. The applicant is proposing to change the zoning
to CN. She presented images of the property.

Ben Clifford mentioned Billings Solutions is located next to the property. He mentioned that
behind Billings Solutions is a residential building with rental units and on 12100 S. there are rental
units as well. He mentioned they would like to build a 1-2 story office building and will stay within
the parameters of the zoning code.

Commissioner Fowler stated that the report commented there are issues with traffic and asked if
they have an indication of the burden that will be placed on 7th East.

Brien Maxfield, Engineer commented the CN zoning has a lot denser business uses than the
residential at its current zoning. It depends on the development that would go on the site. Due to
the size of the property, he does not believe the development will impact the street. The width of
7th East, when widened, will be the same as in Sandy at 114th South heading north on 7th East (4
lanes and a center turn lane).

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to send a positive recommendation to City Council
for the 7th East Office Building Zoning Map Amendment request, as requested by Ben
Clifford representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea Fitzgerald Trust, application
TEXTMAP-0139-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff
report, dated September 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

5.     Public Hearing: Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative Item)

On request of Adam Watts representing Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens and Gary Sturdevant, a Zoning
Map Amendment request from the RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000² minimum lot size) zone
to the CN (Neighborhood Commercial) zone on approximately 1.33 acres located at approximately
696 E. 12100 S. and 12150 S. 700 E. Known as TEXTMAP-0141-2021, Staff contact: Todd
Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.



                                                 10
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 11

Jennifer Jastremsky, Planning Manager, presented the staff report and indicated the site is located
on the corner of 7th East and 12100 South. The property is designated as Neighborhood
Commercial in the Land Use Map and zoned RA1. The applicant is proposing to rezone the
property to CN which is the preferred zoning designation in this land use category. CN zoning is
located directly to the south of this property. She presented images of the property. The property
contains a couple homes currently.

Adam Watts, applicant located at 2221 South 2000 East, thanked the planning commission for
their time. He mentioned they developed the two office buildings to the southeast of this property.
He stated they met with UDOT several times to find out their plans. He indicated they are planning
to expand east due to lack of ROW. They want to build two low impact medical office buildings.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to City Council
for the Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment, as request by Adam Watts representing
Brad Stevens, Lisa Stevens and Gary Sturdevant for application TEXTMAP-0141-2021,
based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated September
30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Tonks, Fowler Ogden and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


6.     Public Hearing: Jewelry Everyday Home Occupation Conditional Use Request
       (Administrative Action)

       This item was relocated after item 3 in the agenda.
A request by Jeremiah and Natalie Brown for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit in the Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum (RA2) zone a jewelry
making business in the home. The property is located at approximately 12835 S. Browns Pond
Cove. Application: USE-119-2021. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at 801-576-6391 or
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering, Planner presented the staff report. She indicated the property is located on
Browns Pond Cove and designated Residential Medium Density in the Land Use Map. The
property is zoned RA2. The applicant is proposing a home occupation for jewelry and key chain
making. This will be done in home and sold on Etsy. There are no customers coming to the home.
The business will include 17% of the home and two employees that do not reside in the home come
to the site. No signs are proposed. There have been no comments received from the public.



                                                11
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 12

Jeremiah Brown stated there are no customers coming to the site and one employee is his sister.
He thinks there are a lot of companies that are online.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing. There were no comments, and the hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit as requested by Jeremiah and Natalie Brown, application USE-119-2021, based on
the findings listed in the staff report, dated October 5, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

       The Planning Commission then moved back to agenda item 4.

7.     Public Hearing: Auto Nation Site Plan (Administrative Action)

On request of Chris Bick representing Kimley-Horn, Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC, and Utah Power
and Light, a Site Plan application for a car dealership on approximately 6.1 acres, approximately
11601 S. Lone Peak Rd., Known as application SPR-0069-2021, Staff contact: Todd A. Draper,
(801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Jennifer Jastremsky, the Planning Manger presented the staff report. She indicated the property is
located on Lone Peak Parkway south of the Karl Malone Dealership. The property is designated
Commercial Special District Land Use Map and Karl Malone CSD zone. The site plan does include
a portion of the Rocky Mountain Power Corridor. She presented an aerial and photos of the site.
The proposed use is a car dealership. They are proposing one building on the north-center part of
the site. There is one entry point from Lone Peak Parkway and a cross access to the north through
the Karl Malone dealership. Some fencing is proposed to differentiate where the public is allowed
and their car inventory. 50 parking spaces are provided for employees and customers and 354
spaces are provided for inventory. The parking complies with zoning standards which is based on
the public display and show room area. There is 35% landscaping provided especially around the
roadways. The building is 20,000 sf in size and 22 feet tall. It will contain primarily CMU block
with accents in grey and pink colors.

Commissioner Fowler asked what is south of the property.

Jennifer Jastremsky state there are office buildings and a power station.

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Chris Bick, applicant mentioned they worked with Rocky Mountain and city staff to insure they
are in compliance with standards.



                                                12
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 13

Commissioner Nixon asked which new cars would be sold on the site.

Chris Bick stated that it is through Auto Nation.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the site plan as requested by Chris Bick
representing Kimley-Horn Salt Lake ANUSA, LLC, and Utah Power and Light for the Auto
Nation Dealership, SPR-0069-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the staff report dated September 29, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

8.     Public Hearing: Kum & Go Store #2500 Text Amendment Request (Legislative
       Action)

A request by Nathan Abbott, representing Galloway & Co., Inc. for approval of a text amendment
in the CSD-136-C zone regarding text changes to the DCMC (Draper City Municipal Code)
development standards, parking design, lighting design, and sign sections of the DCMC 9-18L.
Application: TEXTMAP-080-2021. Staff contact: Maryann Pickering at (801) 576-6391,
maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

Maryann Pickering presented the staff report. She indicated this is a request in the 136 Center on
the west side of the freeway. The land use designation is Commercial Special District. She
mentioned the changes proposed will only apply to the 136 Center CSD. This will clarify the
development standards for the service station and convenience store. This is not the site plan
application. The big changes are in the four sections. The height will be added up to 25 feet for the
fuel canopies and it adds parking for the gas service station and convenience store at the retail rate
already in the CSD. Under the lighting standards it will allow for a higher foot candle reading of
60 foot candles directly under the fuel canopy for safety. The lighting will need to be fully shielded.
There would be allowance for an extra pole sign in the area near the development on Bangerter.
An LED price sign would be allowed near the 2-15 side of the project.

Nathan Abbott, Galloway & Company stated they are seeking to clarify the standards in the CSD.
Gas Station and Convenience stores are allowed by right in the CSD.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.



                                                  13
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 14

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to send a positive recommendation to City Council,
requested by Nathan Abbot, representing Galloway & Company for application
TEXTMAP-080-2021, based on the findings listed in the staff report, dated September 29,
2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.


9.     Public Hearing: Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment (Administrative
       Action)

On the request of Mark McKee representing Arco Design/Build and Exeter Draper Land LLC, a
Site Plan amendment request to add a Commercial building to a 26.93-acre site located at
approximately 13004 S. Pony Express Rd. Known as SPR-0128-2021. Staff contact: Todd A.
Draper, (801) 576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov.

Ms. Jastremsky presented the staff report. She mentioned the planning commission has seen this
property in the past. In 2020, they established a development agreement that set the uses for the
property and changed a 22-lot subdivision into manufacturing. All homes in the subdivision have
since been demolished and all lots have been consolidated into one lot. A site plan was approved
for phase one. She presented a map of the older Green Field Farms subdivision. The roads have
now been vacated. She showed the building that was approved in July and mentioned construction
has commenced. She showed a site plan of the building under consideration today. The building
is centered on the site and will face Pony Express. They are proposing 598 parking stalls for the
overall site. There will be retail in the building. She presented details on the bike racks and an
eight-foot wall that will be located on the south property line. A 15-landscape buffer is provided
in this area as well.

Commissioner Ogden asked what is up against the boundary of the lot.

Ms. Jastremsky stated it’s a dance studio. She mentioned 21% of the site is dedicated towards
landscaping. A detention pond is on the north of the site. The applicant is entering into an
assessment in lieu of the street improvements. Realignment of the ditch and street trees will go in
at a later date. She presented the elevations and mentioned the building is designed with tilt up
concrete and stone. There is 100% primary material as the M-1 zone allows this material as a
primary material. The building is shown with a 45’10” height. They are requesting deviations to
the building design. These include horizontal façade articulate, materials, and roof line variations.
The rear of the building will not have metal accents or variations on the dock side.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the specific conditions are in the staff report.

Ms. Jastremsky stated the motion is specific and included in the staff report.


                                                 14
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 15

Chairman Adams invited the applicant to speak.

Colby Schraegle introduced himself and stated they are the owner and developer of the property.
This proposal is for a retail use. He indicated they can reduce the height and meet the code. He
stated that condition five is for the fee in-lieu and they will most likely take this route. He believes
they can get the plans back on Friday or Monday. He would like a conditional approval now.

Commissioner Fowler asked if the façade design is for the retail use.

Colby mentioned that it is. Reed Hart, Arco Design explained the variations for the horizontal
articulation and mentioned they would install a beautiful canopy on the front.

Colby asked regarding condition five, that they are showing a sidewalk on Pony Express, and staff
would like it moved to the north side of the building. He asked if the section they are showing is
being eliminated.

Ms. Jastremsky mentioned that the code requires a pedestrian access from the sidewalk to the front
entrance of the building.

Chairman Adams opened the public hearing.

Chairman Adams closed the public hearing.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to approve the deviation request for horizontal
and vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee representing Arco
Design/Build and Exeter Draper Land LLC, for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, Application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions
listed in the staff report, dated September 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Nixon.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

----

Motion: Commissioner Tonks motioned to approve the deviation request for significant
horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee representing Arco Design/Build
and Exeter Draper Land LLC, for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment,
Application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
staff report, dated September 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.




                                                  15
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 16

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

----

Motion: Commissioner Ogden motioned to approve the roofline and parapet variation
deviation, as requested by Mark McKee representing Arco Design/Build and Exeter Draper
Land LLC, for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment, Application SPR-0128-
2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated
September 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Tonks.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

----

Motion: Commissioner Nixon motioned to approve the materials deviation, as requested by
Mark McKee representing Arco Design/Build and Exeter Draper Land LLC, for the Summit
Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment, Application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report, dated September 30, 2021.

Second: Commissioner Fowler.

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

----

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to conditionally approve the site plan amendment
based on the findings and subject to the specific and general conditions listed within the staff
report, dated September 30, 2021, as requested by Mark McKee representing Arco
Design/Build and Exeter Draper Land LLC, for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, Application SPR-0128-2021. The site plan approval shall become effective upon
written notice from the zoning administrator that the specific conditions of approval have
been met. The zoning administrator shall have the authority to determine if the conditions
of approval have been met and issue final notice of approval. If the conditions are not met,
the site plan amendment shall not be deemed approved and any changes to the site plan
amendment shall be brought back to the Planning Commission for additional review and
approval.

Second: Commissioner Ogden.




                                              16
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 14, 2021
Page 17

Vote: A roll call was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.
Commissioners Fowler, Tonks, Ogden, and Nixon voted, “Aye”.

10.   Adjournment

Motion: Commissioner Fowler motioned to adjourn.

Vote: A vote was taken with the Commissioners voting 4-0 in favor of the motion.

The meeting adjourned at 9:47PM




                                           17
