                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                        September 9, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: September 23, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:      Jensen Concrete Fence – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-0120-2021
         Applicant:        Courtney Jensen
         Project Location: 12968 S. Fayview Ln.
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum lot size) Zone
         Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2 zone
                           regarding installation of an 8-foot tall precast concrete fence.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.46 acres located on the west side of Fayview Ln., at approximately 12968 S. Fayview Ln.
(Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a
Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for the installation of an 8-foot tall precast
concrete fence along the north and south property lines behind the front wall plane of the
home.

The property is a single-family residential property also known as Lot 201 in the Rivermark
2 Subdivision recorded on August 7, 2019 (Exhibit G). Construction of the home on the
property was completed in March of this year. There is an existing 8-foot tall precast
concrete fence along the western property line that the applicant would like to match
(Exhibits H).




Jensen Concrete Fence                                            App. # USE-0120-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
two dwelling units per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
City’s semi-rural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” RA2 zoning abuts the subject property on the north, east
and south. To the west the property abuts RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft²
minimum lot size) zoning.



Jensen Concrete Fence                                                 App. # USE-0120-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                   2
Fencing. There is an existing 8-foot tall precast concrete fence along the rear property line
on the west that the neighboring property owner has previously installed. The applicant
would like to uniformly fence his property to match the neighbor’s fence (Exhibit H). The
proposed 8-foot tall precast concrete fencing would extend for approximately 135-feet
from the rear property line to the front plane of the existing home as indicated on the
submitted site plan (Exhibits E and F).

DCMC requires a Conditional Use Permit to install any fencing that is greater than 6-feet in
height.

         DCMC Section 9-27-080(A)(2)
         “when located behind the front wall plane a fence, wall, or other visual obstruction, not
         including trees, shall not exceed six feet (6') in height unless a greater height is allowed by
         a conditional use permit or as otherwise permitted in this title.”

         DCMC Section 9-27-080(E)
         “Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not including trees, between six feet (6') and
         ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed only behind the front wall plane, and shall require
         a conditional use permit. Any such visual obstruction over six feet (6') in height must meet
         the setback requirements for accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a
         conditional use permit, except that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement
         without the prior written permission of all affected utility companies.”

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use
permit request is found in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the
standard of review for such requests as:

E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance of a
conditional use permit:
    1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone where
       the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the zone.
    2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
       reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These conditions
       may include conditions concerning use, construction, character, location,
       landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters relating to
       the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set
       forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
    3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
       cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
       achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
    4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
       conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with conditions,



Jensen Concrete Fence                                                    App. # USE-0120-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                      3
       or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to achieve compliance
       with applicable standards:
       a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
           requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
       b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
       c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
           development in the vicinity;
       d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
       e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
       f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
           transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
           landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
           circulation;
       g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive emissions
           such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed facility or use;
           and
       h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare of
           the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
    5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be reasonably
       needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION



Jensen Concrete Fence                                            App. # USE-0120-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                4
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

    1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
       Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
       and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

The findings for approval as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to alleviate
       anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

    1. Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
       alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit , as
requested by Courtney Jensen, application USE-0120-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 9, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit ,
as requested by Courtney Jensen, application USE-0120-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 9, 2021, and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit , as requested
by Courtney Jensen, application USE-0120-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 9, 2021.




Jensen Concrete Fence                                           App. # USE-0120-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 5
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.
   1. No additional comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.
   1. The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer, and other
       utilities for the subject site do not appear to be detrimentally impacted as described.
       Given the location and proposed use, the use is not anticipated to generate a significant
       impact to water, sewer, or other utilities.

   2. The number of trips generated by the home owner/employee will not have a
      detrimental impact to traffic in the area due no indication of clients visiting the
      house. There could be contractors visiting the lot during the construction period,
      but the anticipated increase in traffic is well below the 100 peak hour trips that
      would require a Traffic Impact Study.

   3. Contractors are often park their vehicles along the curb/gutter of Fayview Lane. No impact
      to parking is anticipated with the proposed use, as it is expected that only two to three
      contractor vehicles would be present.

   4. The proposed use does not appear detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare
      of the persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to the property or
      improvements in the vicinity.

   5. The swale shall be undisturbed during the fence construction. Restore it to the same
      grading and dimensions as the one shown on the site plan, if disturbed.

   6. The temporary public turnaround easement shall remain undisturbed.


Building Division Review.
    1. No additional comments

Fire Division Review.
    1. No additional comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
 EXHIBIT F
ELEVATIONS
   EXHIBIT G
SUBDIVISION PLAT
      EXHIBIT H
APPLICANT STATEMENT
