                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                       June 28, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: July 8, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment Request #1
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0018-2021
        Applicant:        Draper City
        Project Location: City Wide
        Current Zoning: City Wide
        Acreage:          City Wide
        Request:          Request for approval of a Text Amendment in order to modify
                          Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Sections 9-3-040, 9-4-050, 9-
                            5-070, 9-5-080, 9-5-090, 9-5-110, 9-5-120, 9-5-130, 9-5-140, 9-
                            5-150, 9-5-170, 9-5-180, 9-5-200, 9-6-140, 9-7-100, 9-10-040,
                            9-10-090, 9-23-050, 9-25-050, 9-25-070, 9-25-090, 9-27-140,
                            9-27-180, 17-1-120, 17-5-030, and 17-9-060, for the purpose
                            of amending regulations pertaining to definitions, permitted
                            use reviews, conditional use permits, site plan reviews,
                            landscaping, addressing, appeals, land use buffers, parking,
                            lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, development
                            standards, and other typographical and de minimis
                            corrections.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple
changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, permitted use
reviews, conditional use permits, site plan reviews, landscaping, addressing, appeals, land



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                        App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                     1
use buffers, parking, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, development standards,
and other typographical and de minimis corrections.

Changes to ordinances governing home occupations were initially noticed as part of this
bulk Text Amendment request but have since been removed from consideration.


ANALYSIS

Text Amendments. This report will review the modifications being proposed. The legislative
copy of the changes can be found in Exhibit B of this report. Additions to the text are
indicated in blue, deletions in red, and unchanged text in black.

DCMC Section 9-3-040: Definitions: Two definitions are proposed to be added to the
ordinance. The definition of an adversely affected party is being added from the same
definition in State Code in order to coincide with necessary modifications to the appeals
sections and language of the DCMC to bring things in line with the requirements and
definitions of State Code. The definition for primary entrance is being added to create a
single definition in the ordinance, this definition is necessary to remove conflicts regarding
the allowable location of accessory buildings and swimming pools, particularly on corner
lots. Minor changes are proposed for the definition of a subdivision to provide additional
clarification as to where to locate listed exemptions from the definition and to correct a
prior typographical error.

DCMC Section 9-4-050: Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer: Proposed changes reflect
changes in State Code that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an
adversely affected party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term aggrieved party.

DCMC Section 9-5-070: Permitted Use Reviews: Proposed changes reflect changes in State
Code that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely
affected party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person.
The changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-080: Conditional Use Permits: Proposed changes reflect changes in State
Code that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely
affected party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person.
The changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-090: Site Plan Review: Proposed updates to this Section reflect the need to
establish more distinct parameters and procedures for objectively reviewing site plan
applications. Proposed updates provide for formal acknowledgment of the authority of the
Zoning Administrator to review site plan applications not otherwise requiring review by the
Planning Commission and of the authority of the Zoning Administrator to refer those site




City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                         App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                      2
plan applications to the Planning Commission for review if doing so would best serve the
interest of the citizens of Draper.

Changes to the plan requirements and submittal items required for a site plan application
are proposed to be updated to match with recent updates to State Code for building
permit plans. This is being proposed so that site plans reviewed and approved through the
planning and zoning review process will also comply with the minimum plot plan submittal
requirements for subsequent building permits. Proposed amendment includes removing
some drainage plan requirements from the grading and drainage plan and instead
requiring them to be addressed in a separate drainage report. Proposed changes also
formally recognize the requirement to provide soils reports, geotechnical reports, and
geologic hazard study reports as part of the overall site plan submittal package when they
are required by other sections of the ordinance.

Proposed elimination of the need to provide a copy of a warranty deed for the property
and instead provide either a preliminary title report or ALTA survey of the property. These
documents help to identify existing encumbrances on the property that could affect the
proposed development. Also for plans that include new proposed streets, a confirmation
from Salt Lake County that the proposed street names are both available and reserved for
use by the applicant is proposed to be added to the list of submittal requirements.

Additionally, proposed changes to subsection F reflect changes in State Code that place
limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party. New
definition replaces the prior use of the terms aggrieved party and adversely affected
person. The changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing
appeals.

Clarifications are also proposed to subsection J which include clarifications regarding the
expiration of approved plans and the process and costs associated with the filing of a new
application for the same project after an approval from the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission has expired.

DCMC Section 9-5-110: Variances: Proposed changes update the reference to the section of
ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-120: Building Permits: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code that
place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party.
New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person. The changes
also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-130: Nonconforming Uses: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code
that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected
party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person. The



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                          App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                      3
changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-140: Sign Permits: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code that
place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party.
New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person. The changes
also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-150: Temporary Use Permits: Proposed changes reflect changes in State
Code that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely
affected party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person.
The changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.
DCMC Section 9-5-170: Administrative Interpretations: Proposed changes reflect changes in
State Code that place limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely
affected party. New definition replaces the prior use of the term adversely affected person.
The changes also update the reference to the section of ordinance governing appeals.

DCMC Section 9-5-180: Appeal of Administrative Decisions: Proposed changes reflect changes
in State Code that utilize the definition of an adversely affected party, including the land
use applicant and officers of the city. Many other sections of the DCMC reference this
section of ordinance. Clarifications proposed to more clearly denote that the quasi-judicial
hearing by the Appeals and Variance Hearing officer is classified as a public meeting and
not subject to public hearing standards, particularly including public comment.

DCMC Section 9-5-200: Development Agreements: Proposed change corrects an oversight in a
previously updated ordinance section due to recent changes in State Code and corrects the
reference to denote that the applicable section regulating the enactment of land use
regulations is found in State Code.

DCMC Section 9-6-140: Appeals: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code that place
limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party. New
definition replaces the prior use of the term aggrieved person.

DCMC Section 9-7-100: Appeals: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code that place
limits on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party. New
definition replaces the prior use of the term aggrieved person.

DCMC Section 9-10-040: Development Standards: Proposed changes reflect the proposed
addition of a definition for a primary entrance.

DCMC Section 9-10-090: Use and Development Standards Tables: Proposed changes to Table 9-
10-3 to add setback standards for front, rear and side yards in the RM1 and RM2 zones.
Recent changes in State Code necessitated changes to standards for Single-Family and
Two-Family dwellings throughout the ordinance. Setbacks in the RM1 and RM2 zones for all



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                          App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                      4
structures were listed as not applicable in the table as they were governed by DCMC
Chapter 32. As updates to DCMC Chapter 32 necessitated the removal of standards for
Two-Family Dwellings, the table in DCMC Section 9-10-090 now needs to prescribe
minimum setbacks for detached Single-Family and Two-Family Dwellings on individual lots.
Setbacks for Multiple-Family Dwelling in these zones would continue to be regulated by
DCMC Chapter 32.

DCMC Section 9-23-050: Site Design Criteria: Proposed ordinance update adds a new
requirement that detention and retention basins be landscaped and use low impact
development systems and techniques in their design.

DCMC Section 9-25-050: Parking Location: Proposed change includes the removal of on street
parking for non-residential uses as counting towards the satisfaction of required parking.
Proposal updates the available use of shared parking to proposals that do not produce
competing demands for the same parking spaces that exceed the available parking.
Removes outdated references to ordinance chapters that no longer exist. Additional
typographical and formatting changes are also proposed to correctly identify terms and
applicable ordinance subsections are also included.

DCMC Section 9-25-070: Parking Dimensions: Proposed ordinance changes simplify the
regulations regarding compact parking spaces. The changes proposed seek to be closer in
line with the intent to allow for the provision of compact parking spaces that reduce the
amount of paved impervious surfaces while providing justifiable limits to the amount of
parking so designated. As approximately only 10% of vehicles on the road today are
designated as compact vehicles, the current ordinance allowance of increasing compact
parking spaces up to 25% of all spaces when paired with a landscape plaza near the main
primary entrance would be counterproductive to both the reduction in paved surface and
the available parking as approximately 15% of the parking spaces in such a scenario would
be unutilized for parking.

DCMC Section 9-25-090: Deviations from Strict Compliance for Parking: Proposed changes
reflect the desire to close up a loophole in residential parking requirements with regards to
the natural adjustment ranges allowed in ordinance. The proposed revisions would
eliminate the use of natural range adjustments for residential projects, and alternatively
require no formal deviation for projects wishing to provide an increase in parking for
residential uses and instead only require a formal deviation request to be made for those
residential projects wishing to provide a reduction in parking. Additionally, proposed
revisions to this Section remove on street parking as counting towards satisfaction of a
projects parking requirements.

DCMC 9-27-140: Lots and Yards: Proposed modifications to Subsection C of this Section
would fix ordinance formatting issues and remove required dedication of land associated
with the approval of a development application made by an applicant under Titles 9 or 17



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                        App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                     5
from being potentially allowed to create substandard development lots or parcels in
violation of the lot size minimums for the zoning district in which they are located.

DCMC 9-27-180: Swimming Pools: The regulations for swimming pools are proposed to be
completely rewritten to be aligned with current building code and future potential revisions
to the building code, as well as other applicable rules including those adopted by the local
health department. The proposed regulations expand the prior focus of the ordinance on
individual residential pools and would also provide regulations applicable to outdoor
commercial or residential pools associated with Multiple-Family residential developments.
Evidence of approval from the local health department would be required at the time of
the building permit. Regulations regarding prohibitions on pools in the front yard and clear
view areas of the property are included. Pools would still be prohibited in the primary front
yard for corner lots and the primary front yard would be determined based on the location
of the primary entrance.

DCMC 17-1-120: Appeals: Proposed changes reflect changes in State Code that place limits
on the filing of appeals utilizing the definition of an adversely affected party. New definition
replaces the prior use of the terms aggrieved person or aggrieved party.

DCMC 17-5-030: Streets: Proposed changes correct a typographical error in a previous
ordinance update.

DCMC 17-9-060: Property Boundary Adjustments: Proposed changes correct formatting
discrepancies within the Subsection and other Subsections within the same Section.

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Text Amendment
request is found in Sections 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of
review for such requests as:

        2. Text Amendments:
             a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
                 of the city's general plan;
             b. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                 zoning ordinance;
             c. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                 and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
             d. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part
                 of this title or the general plan;
             e. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated
                 and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                 represents an overall community benefit; and
             f. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
                 professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                       6
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Text Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Text Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Legal Division Review. The Draper City Attorney has completed his review of the Text
Amendment submission. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
ordinances. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the
                zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request
                and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
                part of this title or the general plan;



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                       7
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
                represents an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional
                practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements
                of the zoning ordinance;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the
                request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the
                zoning ordinance;
        4.      The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part
                of this title or the general plan;
        5.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and
                determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does
                not represent an overall community benefit; and
        6.      The proposed text amendment does not implement best current,
                professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated
2021 Bulk Text Amendment #1, application TEXTMAP-0018-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 28, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City
Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #1, application TEXTMAP-0018-2021, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 28, 2021 and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City for the City Initiated 2021
Bulk Text Amendment #1, application TEXTMAP-0018-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated June 28, 2021.



City Initiated 2021 Bulk                                        App. # TEXTMAP-0018-2021
Text Amendment Request #1                     8
                                    EXHIBIT A
                               DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     The proposed modifications provide needed updates to Titles 9 and 17 of the
              Draper City Municipal Code. Adopting the proposed changes will improve the
              functionality of the ordinance.
                                       EXHIBIT B
                                  LESISLATIVE DRAFT

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

…

ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who:

    A. Owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use
       application or land use decision, or
    B. Will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct from, that of
       the general community as a result of the land use decision.
…

Primary Entrance: The entry point to a main building designed to receive the public.
For commercial, industrial and multi-family residential buildings the primary
entrance is usually located on the street bearing the main building’s formal postal
address. For single family and two-family dwelling units the primary entrance is
located on the street bearing the dwelling’s postal address.

…

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or
upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

A. "Subdivision" includes:

1. The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, regardless
of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and

2. Except as provided in subsection B, Ddivisions of land for all residential and
nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural,
and industrial purposes.

B. "Subdivision" does not include:

1. A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purposed of joining
one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided
agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel notnor the parcel
remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land use ordinance;
…



9-4-050: APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER:

…

  H. Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer
shall not stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
such proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the zoning administrator. An
appellant may request a stay by submitting to the zoning administrator, in writing,
an application for a stay setting forth the reasons why a stay is necessary to protect
against imminent harm. In determining whether or not to grant a stay, the zoning
administrator shall assure that all potentially affected parties are given the
opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be
given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by the zoning
administrator. The zoning administrator, in granting a stay, may impose additional
conditions to mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the stay, including
requiring the appellant to post a bond. Within ten (10) days of the zoning
administrator's decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any aggrieved
adversely affected party may appeal the decision to the appeals and variance
hearing officer, whose decision will be final.

  I. Appeals From The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: Any person aggrieved
by A land use applicant or adversely affected party may file a petition for review of
a final decision of the appeals and variance hearing officer and may have and
maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, that the petition for such relief is presented to the court
within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the appeals and variance
hearing officer.



9-5-070: PERMITTED USE REVIEWS:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a permitted use
permit may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in accordance with
the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…
9-5-080: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a planning
commission decision of the Planning Commission regarding the transfer, issuance
or denial of a conditional use permit may appeal such decision to the Appeals and
Variance Hearing Officer by filing written notice of appeal stating the grounds
therefor within fourteen (14) days from the date of such final determinationare
governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-090: SITE PLAN REVIEW:

  A. Purpose: This section sets forth the procedures for considering and approving
reviewing a site plan. These procedures are established to encourage adequate
advance planning and assure a good quality of environment for the Cityassure that
the plans meet the purposes and standards of the subject zone, provide for
necessary public and private facilities, infrastructure, emergency access, geologic
constraints, and other considerations surrounding land uses. Such procedure is
intended to provide for orderly, harmonious, safe and functionally efficient
development consistent with priorities, values, and guidelines stated in the various
elements of the Draper City general plan, this title and the general welfare of the
community. This section is not intended to so rigidly control design so as to stifle
creativity or individual expression, or to cause substantial, unnecessary expense;
rather, any control exercised is intended to be the minimum necessary to efficiently
achieve the objectives stated herein.

  B. Authority: The Pplanning Ccommission and zoning administrator are is
authorized to approve or deny site plans as provided in this section. The zoning
administrator may refer any site plan to the planning commission for review if the
zoning administrator determines, in their sole discretion, a planning commission
decision would serve the best interest of the citizens of Draper, or if other aspects
of the proposed development require planning commission review.

  C. Initiation: A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request approval of a
site plan as provided in subsection D(1) of this section.
   1. A site plan shall be required for any of the following uses listed in subsection
C(2) below, unless expressly exempted from such requirement by another
provision of this title:.

     a. Any manufacturing use.

     b. Any commercial use.

     c. Any institutional use.

     d. Any multi-family residential use.

    2. In situations requiring site plan approval, no building permit for the
construction of any building, structure, or other improvement to the site shall be
issued prior to approval of a site plan. No clearing, grubbing, grading, drainage
work, parking lot construction or other site improvement shall be allowed prior to
site plan approval.The planning commission shall review site plans for the following
uses:

     a. Any manufacturing use.

     b. Any commercial use.

     c. Any institutional use.

     d. Any multi-family residential use

3. A site plan for any use not listed in subsection C(2) above may be reviewed by
the zoning administrator.

4. No building permit for the construction of any building, structure, or other
improvement to the site shall be issued prior to approval of a site plan if a site plan
is required. No clearing, grubbing, grading, drainage work, parking lot construction
or other site improvement shall be allowed prior to site plan approval.

 D. Procedure: An application for site plan approval shall be considered and
processed as provided in this subsection:.

   1. A complete application shall be submitted to the office of the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator, along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of feesconsolidated fee schedule. The application
shall include the following information:

     a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any.

     b. The uses for which site plan approval is requested.
     c. A certified occupancy survey at a scale no smaller than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') showing the deed boundary, all deed boundaries of
adjacent parcels, and all existing natural and manmade features, such as fences,
ditches, buildings, etc., within fifty feet (50') of the property line.

     d. A single electronic set of development plans showing the information
required in subsections D(1)(d)(1) to D(1)(d)(6) of this section. The information
required by each subsection shall be shown on separate sheets. Plans shall be
drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Plan
sets shall be prepared, stamped and signed by the professional, licensed with the
state of Utah, who prepared the drawings or is professionally responsible for the
drawings content, including the engineering, landscaping and architectural
drawings. The development plans shall include:

       (1) Site plan showing the following:

          (A) All facilities related to the project located within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the site boundary.

        (B) Layout, dimensions, and names of existing and future road rights of
way. (New street names must be cleared through the county.)

         (C) Project name, north arrow, legend and tie to a section monument.

         (D) The boundary lines of the project site with bearings and distances.

        (E) Layout and dimensions of existing and proposed streets, buildings,
parking areas, driveways, easements, setbacks, overhangs for setbacks, and
landscape areas.

         (F) Location, dimensions, and labeling of other features such as bicycle
racks, dumpsters, trash cans, fences, retaining walls, nearest fire hydrant, signage,
mechanical equipment, etc.

         (G) Location of manmade features, including irrigation facilities, bridges,
railroad tracks, and buildings.

         (H) A tabulation table, showing total gross acreage, square footage of
street rights of way, square footage of building footprint, square footage of total
building floor area, square footage of landscaping, number of parking spaces, and
square footage of impervious surfaces.

         (I) Identification of property, if any, not proposed for development.
(J)  Defensible space provisions and elevations, if required by the Utah Wildland
Urban Interface Code adopted under Utah Code Section 15A-2-103



       (2) Grading and drainage plan showing the following:

        (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

        (B) Topography at one foot (1') intervals.

        (C) Areas of substantial earthmoving with an erosion control plan.

         (D) Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells,
culverts, and storm drains, and proposed method of dealing with all irrigation and
wastewater.

        (E) Location of any designated floodplain and/or wetland boundaries.

         (F) Direction of stormwater flows, catch basins, inlets, outlets, waterways,
culverts, detention basins, orifice plates, outlets to off-site facilities, and off site
drainage facilities when necessary. Drainage plans shall facilitate a 10-year storm
event. A maximum stormwater controlled release rate of 0.1 cubic feet per second
per acre shall be the maximum permitted discharge in the Salt Lake County portion
of Draper City. A maximum stormwater controlled release rate of 0.03 cubic feet
per second per acre for a 10-year event and 0.06 cubic feet per second per acre for
a 100-year event shall be the maximum discharge rates permitted in the Utah
County portion of Draper City. However no discharge shall exceed demonstrated
historical flows from any drainage or sum of drainages. Further reductions in
release rates may be required in situations of insufficient stormwater system
capacity.

        (G) Hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage calculations using a 10-year
storm event. 100-year events may need to be accommodated in certain locations in
the path of major drainages.

       (3) Utility plan showing the following:

        (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

         (B) All existing and proposed utilities, including, but not limited to: sewer,
culinary water, secondary water, fire hydrants, storm drains, subsurface drains, gas
lines, power lines, communications lines, cable television lines, and streetlights.

        (C) Minimum fire flow required by the current International Fire Code for
the proposed structures, and fire flow calculations at all hydrant locations.
          (DC) Location and dimensions of all utility easements.

        (ED) A letter from sewer and water providers, addressing the feasibility
and their requirements to serve the project.

         (4) Landscaping plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 23 of this
title, showing the following:

          (A) North arrow, scale, legend and site plan underlay.

          (B) Sprinkler system layout and type of heads.

          (C) Flow rate assumed for sprinkler system.

          (D) Plant materials and location, including species and size.

          (E) Any other information required by chapter 23 of this title.

         (5) Lighting plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter 20 of this title.

        (6) Architectural renderings (building elevations) for all buildings showing
the following:

          (A) Accurate front, rear, and side elevations drawn to scale.

          (B) Exterior surfacing materials and colors, including roofing material and
color.

          (C) Outdoor lighting, furnishings and architectural accents.

         (D) Location and dimensions of all signage proposed to be attached to the
building or structure.

     e. Soils report, geotechnical reports, and geologic hazard study reports as
required elsewhere in this Title.

      f. Drainage report including hydraulic and hydrologic storm drainage
calculations. 100-year events may need to be accommodated in certain locations in
the path of major drainages. See the Drainage Design Criteria for calculation
requirements. Drainage plans shall facilitate a 10-year storm event. A maximum
stormwater controlled release rate of 0.1 cubic feet per second per acre shall be
the maximum permitted discharge in the Salt Lake County portion of Draper City. In
the Utah County area of Draper City, no discharge shall exceed demonstrated
historical flows from any drainage or sum of drainages. Further reductions in
release rates may be required in situations of insufficient stormwater system
capacity.
     fg. Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage or other pertinent matters.

     gh. When the project is located within the sensitive lands overlay zone,
additional reports as required by chapter 16 of this title.

     hi. Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws
and regulations as may be requested by the zoning administrator.

   ij. Traffic impact analysis, if requested by the city engineer or the planning
commission.

     jk. Warranty deed or pPreliminary title report or ALTA survey.

       kl. Wastewater discharge approval from South Valley water reclamation
facility, if required by the South Valley water reclamation facility.

     lm. Parcel map(s) from the county recorder's office showing the subject
property and all property located within four hundred feet (400') thereof.For site
plans that include new proposed streets, a letter from the Salt Lake County
Addressing department indicating that the proposed name is both available and
has been reserved for use by the development. Availability or reservation of a
proposed street name with Salt Lake County does not constitute approval of the
proposed street name or addressing from Draper City.

    2. After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning administrator
shall schedule a public hearing before the planning commission as provided in
section 9-5-040 of this chapter. Notice of the meeting should be given as provided
in section 9-5-045 of this chapter.

  3. A staff report evaluating the application shall be prepared by the zoning
administrator.

   4. The planning commission shall hold a public meeting and thereafter shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application pursuant to the
standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any conditions of approval shall
be limited to conditions needed to conform the site plan to approval standards.

   5. After the planning commission makes a decision, the zoning administrator
shall give the applicant written notice of the decision. The applicant shall provide
the city a copy of the approved site plan, including any required corrections or
revisions. Once in final, approved form, the site plan shall be marked "Approved" by
the city.
   6. A record of all site plan approvals shall be maintained in the office of the
zoning administrator.

…

  F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected by a decision of the
Planning Commission regardingAppeals regarding the approval or denial of a site
plan may appeal to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in accordance withare
governed by the provisions of subsection 9-5-180D1 of this chapter.

…

  J. Expiration: Failure to obtain a land disturbance permit within one year of
approval of any site plan shall void the prior site plan approval. Prior to the
expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request withto
the community development department for a site plan extension of up to six (6)
months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the Zzoning
Aadministrator or Pplanning Ccommission, whichever is the approval authority
outlined in this section, provided the applicant can meet the requirements for
extension under section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action toward
obtaining a land disturbance permit. If a site plan expires, and an applicant wishes
to continue with development of the site a new application shall be
submittedrequired. If there have been no changes to applicable codes which would
necessitate updates to the previously approved plans, the applicant will be charged
a new application fee of fifty percent (50%) of the current fee outlined in the
consolidated fee schedule and the application shall be approved by the zoning
administrator or Pplanning Ccommission, whichever is the approval authority
outlined in this section, in a public meeting as an action item. If changes to the site
plan are made by the applicant or are required due to Cchanges toin applicable
codes that require alteration of the previously approved,the site plan shall be
processed as a new application and is subject to a new application fee at one
hundred percent (100%) of the current fee established in the consolidated fee
schedule and a public hearing before the Planning Commission.



9-5-110: VARIANCES:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a decision of
the appeals and variance hearing officer regarding a variance may appeal such
decision as provided inare governed by subsection 9-4-050(HI) of this title.
…



9-5-120: BUILDING PERMITS:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding zoning compliance
of a building permit may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in
accordance with the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-130: NONCONFORMING USES:

…

  F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a nonconforming
use may appeal such decision as provided in are governed by section 9-5-180 of
this chapter.

…



9-5-140: SIGN PERMITS:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a sign permit may
appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in accordance with the
provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-150: TEMPORARY USE PERMITS:

…

 F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of a zoning
administrator’s decision of the zoning administrator regarding a temporary use
permit may appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer in accordance with
the provisions ofare governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-170: ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS:

…

  F. Appeal Of Decision: Any person adversely affected byAppeals of an
administrative interpretation rendered by the Zzoning Aadministrator may appeal
to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer in accordance with the provisions ofare
governed by section 9-5-180 of this chapter.

…



9-5-180: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:

 A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for appealing an administrative
decision applying provisions of this title.

 B. Authority: The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall hear and
decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the provisions of this title as
provided in this section.

   C. Initiation: Any personThe land use applicant, an officer of the city, or an
adversely affected party bymay appeal a decision administering or interpreting a
provision of this title may appeal to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer
as provided in subsection D(1) of this section. A complete Notice of Appeal shall be
filed within fourteen (14) days of the decision being appealed.

  D. Procedure: An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and
processed as provided in this subsection and shall respect the due process rights of
the participants.

    1. A complete Notice of Appeal shall be submitted to the Office of the Zzoning
Aadministrator on a form established by the Aadministrator along with the fee
established by the City in its consolidated fee schedule. The Notice of Appeal shall
include at least the following information:

     a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
     b. The decision appealed;

     c. Grounds for the appeal; and

     d. A description of the action claimed by the applicant to be incorrect.

   2. After the Notice of Appeal is determined to be complete and timely filed, the
Zzoning Aadministrator shall coordinate with the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing
Oofficer to schedule a hearing meeting. Notice of the hearing meeting shall be
given as provided in subsection 9-4-050(EF) of this title. Prior to the hearing meeting
the Zzoning Aadministrator shall transmit to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing
Oofficer all papers constituting the record of the action which is appealed.

   3. An appeal to the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall not stay
proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such
proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the Zzoning Aadministrator. An
appellant may request a stay by submitting to the Zzoning Aadministrator, in
writing, a request for a stay setting forth the reasons why a stay is necessary to
protect against imminent harm. In determining whether or not to grant a stay, the
Zzoning Aadministrator shall assure that all potentially affected parties are given
the opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall
be given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by the Zzoning
Aadministrator. The Zzoning Aadministrator, in granting a stay, may impose
additional conditions to mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the
stay, including requiring the appellant to post a bond. Within ten (10) days of the
Zzoning Aadministrator's decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any
aggrieved adversely affected party may appeal the decision to the Aappeals and
Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer with jurisdiction over the appeal, whose decision will
be final.

   4. The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall conduct a hearing based
upon the record only, taking no new testimony or new information but relying
solely upon the information and final decision of the officer or body from whom the
appeal was taken. The appellant has the burden of proving that the officer or body
erred. In conducting the appeal hearing the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing
Oofficer shall:

     a. Determine whether the record on appeal includes substantial evidence for
each essential finding of fact;

     b. Determine the correctness of the officer or body's interpretation and
application of the plain meaning of the land use regulations and thereafter affirm
or reverse, wholly or in part, the lower decision, modify that decision, or impose any
conditions needed to conform the matter appealed to applicable approval
standards; and

     c. Interpret and apply a land use regulation to favor a land use application
unless the land use regulation plainly restricts the land use application.

    5. The Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer shall have all the powers of
the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and may issue or direct the
issuance of a permit.

   6. After the Aappeals and Vvariance Hhearing Oofficer makes a decision, the
Zzoning Aadministrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision. The
decision takes effect on the date when the Aappeal Aauthority issues a written
decision.

   7. A record of all appeals shall be maintained in the Office of the Zzoning
Aadministrator.

…



9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

…

D. Limitations:

1.   A development agreement under this section may not:

a.   Limit the City’s authority in the future to:

i.   Enact a land use regulation; or

ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-84, as
amended;

b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the
City in the future; or

c. Contain a term that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set forth in an
existing land use regulation that governs the area subject to the development
agreement, unless the city council approves the development agreement in
accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under
Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation
from the planning commission and a public hearing.

…



9-6-140: APPEALS:

Any person aggrieved adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning
administrator or other official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal
for relief therefrom to the appeals and variance hearing officer as provided in this
title.



9-7-100: APPEALS:

Any person aggrieved adversely affected party by a decision of the zoning
administrator or other official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal
for relief therefrom to the appeals and variance hearing officer as provided in this
title.



9-10-040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

Development standards within residential zones shall be as set forth in section 9-
10-090, table 9-10-3 of this chapter, and in this section. (Ord. 394, 8-7-2001)

A. Accessory Buildings: The following requirements shall apply to any accessory
building in a residential zone:

1. All accessory buildings, regardless of size, shall be subject to the following
regulations:

a. An accessory building shall not encroach upon any easement or right of way,
except as provided in section 9-27-070 of this title.

b. The combined square footage of all detached accessory buildings shall not
exceed eight percent (8%) of the total lot area.

c. Accessory buildings shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any dwelling or
building located upon an adjoining lot.

d. Accessory buildings shall be set at least six feet (6') from the main building. (Ord.
769, 8-7-2007)
e. Accessory buildings on a corner lot shall meet the same front yard setbacks as
the main building. For purposes of locating an accessory building on a corner lot,
the "front wall plane" is the plane of the main building containing the primary
entrance. "Primary entrance" is the entry point to the main building designed to
receive the public. It is usually located on the street bearing the main building's
formal postal address.

…



9-10-090: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:

…
TABLE 9-10-3
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Development         Zones
Standard

                    RA1      RA2      RH       R3       R4       R5      RM1      RM2

Lot standards1:

Minimum area,       40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   10,000   8,000   6,000    4,000
single-family       s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.    s.f.     s.f.
dwelling

Minimum lot area,   40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   n/a      n/a     12,000   12,000
single dwelling     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.                      s.f.     s.f.
unit with
accessory
dwelling unit

Minimum area,       40,000   20,000   40,000   13,000   NP       NP      10,000   8,000
two-family          s.f.     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.                      s.f.     s.f.
dwelling

Minimum project     NP       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP      1 acre   1 acre
area, multiple-
family dwelling

Minimum area,       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP       NP      1,000    1,000
townhouse                                                                s.f.     s.f.
dwelling
Minimum area,       40,000     20,000     40,000     13,000     10,000     8,000      n/a        n/a
other main          s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.       s.f.
buildings

Maximum lot         4.0 to 1   3.0 to 1   4.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   2.0 to 1   5.0 to 1   5.0 to 1
depth (as a
multiple of lot
width at widest
point)

Minimum lot         50'        50'        50'        50'        50'        50'        n/a        n/a
frontage

Minimum lot         100'       90'        100'       80'        80'        70'        n/a        n/a
width2

Building
standards:

Maximum             1          2          1          3          4          5          8          12
dwelling unit       du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre    du/acre
density per acre

Maximum square      40%        40%        40%        40%        40%        40%        n/a        n/a
footage of floor
area at ground
level (including
garages) as a
percentage of lot
area

Maximum height,     35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'        35'
main building

Maximum height,     See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
accessory
buildings

Setback
standards - front
yard3:
Main buildings on   30'       30'        30'        25'     25'   25'   n/a20’5   n/a20’5
interior and
corner lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title

Setback
standards - rear
yard3:

Main buildings on   20'       20'        20'        20'     20'   20'   n/a20’5   n/a20’5
interior lots4

Main buildings on   12'       12'        12'        10'     8'    8'    n/a6’5    n/a5’5
corner lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Barns and stables   See section 9-27-050 of this title

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title

Setback
standards - side
yard3:

Main buildings on   12'       12'        12'        10'     8'    8'    n/a6’5    n/a5’5
interior lots4

Accessory           See subsection 9-10-040(A) of this chapter
buildings

Barns and stables   See section 9-27-050 of this title

Swimming pools      See section 9-27-180 of this title



Notes:
 1. Minimum required lot area on private right-of-way or access easement shall
be net area, excluding any area of the lot located within a private right-of-way or
access easement.
  2. Corner lots should be platted 10 feet wider than interior lots of subdivisions
to accommodate 2 front yards in accordance with section 17-5-020 of this Code.
  3. Except as modified by the provisions of section 9-27-140, "Lots And Yards", of
this title.
  4. Except as modified by the provisions of subsection 9-27-140(G), "Setback
Measurement", of this title.
  5. Setbacks between building units (i.e., fourplex, sixplex, etc.) as well as
setbacks for all buildings (clubhouses, building units, etc.) from project boundaries
Listed setbacks are applicable to Single-family or Two-family dwellings on individual
lots, for Multiple-Family dwellings and developments the setbacks shall be
determined at site plan approval in accordance with the provisions of subsection 9-
32-030 of this Title.



9-23-050: SITE DESIGN CRITERIA:
…
H. Storm Water Infrastructure: Detention and retention basins shall be landscaped
and maintained. The use of low impact development systems and techniques to
encourage infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse of storm water is required.
…


9-25-050: PARKING LOCATION:

…

 C. On Street Parking For Nonresidential Uses: On street parking associated with
uses in nonresidential zones is prohibited but may be permitted and counted
toward satisfaction of required parking when:

   1. Such parking is prescribed by the master transportation plan and
implemented as a part of an approved right of way cross section;

   2. The use to be directly associated with such parking is a nonresidential use
that:

     a. Is to be conducted in a structure that is converted from a residential
structure;

     b. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without restricting the
current or planned travel lanes of the fronting right of way;
    c. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without creating any
nonconformity in the development of the site; and

     d. Can be designed to accommodate such parking without necessity of a
deviation from strict compliance for parking; or

   3. The site can be designed to accommodate such parking as a part of but
outside the planned right of way travel and bike lanes without the creation of any
nonconformity or the necessity of a deviation from strict compliance for parking.

 DC. Shared Use Parking: A shared use parking study must be submitted for review
for approval of shared use parking. The study must be reviewed by the zoning
administrator to determine whether the uses will make use of the shared spaces at
different times of the day, week, month, or year. The planning commission,
following a recommendation from the zoning administrator, may authorize shared
use of a parking area subject to the following conditions:

   1. The uses sharing the parking area are unlikely to produce a substantial
competing demands that exceed the available parking during the same hours for
parking at the same time;

   2. Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities shall not be
reduced; and

   3. Ongoing shared use of the parking area is assured by an agreement
reviewed and accepted by the city which provides at least the following:

     a. The parking area shall be continuously available unless an alternative
parking area is provided;

     b. All spaces shall be available without charge;

     c. All parking spaces shall be available perpetually to all uses utilizing the
parking; and

     d. Additional parking shall be provided up to the amount otherwise required
under this chapter if the zoning administrator determines, based on parking
counts, that a shared parking area does not satisfy the off street parking demand of
the uses involved.

 ED. Temporary Parking:

   1. Temporary parking, when approved as part of a temporary use or special
event, shall be exempt from the landscaping and paving requirements of this
chapter, but must comply with all access and surfacing requirements for fire and
public safety purposes.

     2. The city may allow a temporary use or special event, approved pursuant to
title 6, chapter 16 or 17 of this code respectively, to occupy or use parking areas
ordinarily required for a permanent use if it is found that the temporary use will not
cause a shortage in parking needed for the permanent use.

 FE. Vacant Lots And Open Land: Vacant lots and open land areas shall not be
used as parking areas, except as allowed for a temporary use or special event.

 GF. Parking For Residential Uses: All parking associated with residential uses
shall be according to the following:

   1. All residential uses shall provide on-site hard surfaced parking in accordance
with section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter.

   2. Front yards and side yards of residential uses shall not be used for parking
unless hard surfaced.

   3. There shall be no permanent on street parking in residential zones.

   4. Required parking for single-family dwellings shall be provided within an
enclosed garage.

   5. Required parking for an approved accessory dwelling unit shall not be
required to be within an enclosed garage but shall be provided in a hard surfaced
area.

   6. Multi-family dwellings designed to include enclosed garages may count the
number of spaces within the garage toward the parking requirement when the
garage is designed in compliance with subsection 9-25-070(A)(3) of this chapter and
approved as a part of a site plan or site plan amendment.

  HG. Parking Of Recreational Vehicles In Residential Zones: Personal recreational
vehicles, including, but not limited to, trailers, boats, travel trailers, boats,
watercraft, utility trailers, and motor homes parked in residential zones shall be
parked on a hard surfaced area behind the front wall plane of the primary structure
on the same property. Parking for such vehicles within residential developments
approved with off street recreational vehicle parking areas shall be allowed within
those recreational vehicle parking areas only.

 IH. Heavy Vehicle Parking:
    1. Fifteen Thousand Pounds Or Less: Vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating
or gross vehicle weight of fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds or less may be parked
in any zone according to the terms of this code.

    2. More Than Fifteen Thousand But Less Than Twenty Six Thousand: Vehicles,
other than recreational vehicles, with a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle
weight of more than fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds and twenty six thousand
(26,000) pounds or less may be parked in residential zones when said vehicles are
parked within an enclosed building or:

     a. Are operable;

     b. Maintain proper and current licensure and registration;

     c. Are located on a property containing an occupied primary structure;

     d. Are parked on a hard surfaced area of the property;

    e. Are parked behind the front wall plane of the primary structure on the
property; and

     f. Are parked behind a site obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height.

    3. Commercial Vehicle Parking: Commercial vehicles, commercial trailers, and
semitrailers shall not be parked in any residential zone, on any public right of way
in any zone, or along any collector or arterial street in any zone, except while
actually loading or unloading cargo on or in said vehicle.

     a. An owner of residential property may park a truck-tractor on their property
in any residential zone when it is detached from any trailer and parked subject to
the provisions of subsection I(2) of this section.

    b. An owner of residential property desiring to locate up to three (3)
commercial vehicles, other than truck-tractors, on property they own may apply
and be approved for a conditional use permit when the planning commission finds:

      (1) The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;

       (2) Commercial vehicles to be parked on the property remain operable and
licensed at all times;

    (3) The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
commercial vehicles requested;

       (4) The commercial vehicles will be parked on the property in accordance
with subsection I(2) of this section; and
     (5) The allowed commercial vehicles will not be in addition to any approved
equipment vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection I(4) of this section or
commercial trailers allowed under the terms of subsection I(5) of this section.

    4. Contracting And Earthmoving Equipment: Contracting and earthmoving
equipment not legal for over the road travel shall not be parked in a residential
zone even if parked on a trailer hauling or transporting said equipment unless they
are parked outside of any right of way on the site of an active construction or
development project and are being used as a part of that construction or
development work. An owner of residential property desiring to locate up to three
(3) backhoes, loaders, excavation, or similar equipment vehicles on property they
own may apply and be approved for a conditional use permit when the planning
commission finds:

     a. The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;

     b. Equipment vehicles to be parked on the property remain operable at all
times;

    c. The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
equipment vehicles requested;

    d. The equipment vehicles will be parked on the property in accordance with
subsection I(2) of this section;

    e. The equipment vehicles have an engine horsepower rating below one
hundred (100) horsepower or a load lifting capacity below seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) pounds, whichever is lower; and

   f. The allowed equipment vehicles will not be in addition to any approved
commercial vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection I(3)(b) of this section or
commercial trailers allowed under the terms of subsection I(5) of this section.

   5. Trailers: Trailers of any size not hitched to a pulling vehicle shall not be
parked within any right of way. Semitrailers and commercial trailers may not be
parked in any residential zone unless hitched to a truck-tractor or pulling vehicle
that is actually loading or unloading cargo on or in said vehicle. An owner of
residential property desiring to locate up to three (3) commercial trailers on
property they own may apply and be approved for a conditional use permit when
the planning commission finds:

     a. The property is located within the RA1 or RA2 zone;
     b. Commercial trailers to be parked on the property remain operable and
licensed at all times;

   c. The property is of sufficient size to accommodate the number of
commercial trailers requested;

    d. The commercial trailers will be parked on the property in accordance with
subsection I(2) of this section; and

    e. The allowed commercial will not be in addition to any approved
commercial vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection I(3)(b) of this section or
equipment vehicles allowed under the terms of subsection I(4) of this section.

  JI. Parking On Park Strips And Sidewalks: Vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles
or other motorized forms of transportation shall not be parked on, over, or within
the sidewalk or park strip area between the sidewalk and the street in any zone.

  KJ. Development Parking: Parking within and between nonresidential
developments is strongly encouraged to be provided in a manner that provides for
a cohesive environment between adjacent developments. Placement of parking for
adjacent nonresidential developments are strongly encouraged to locate parking
between the buildings and away from streets frontages to the greatest extent
possible.

…



9-25-070: PARKING DIMENSIONS:

 A. Parking Space Dimensions: Minimum parking space and related dimensions
shall be as set forth herein and as shown on section 9-25-100, table 9-25-
2 and figure 9-25-4 of this chapter:

…

   9. Sites containing fifty (50) or more parking spaces may provide compact
parking spaces for a portion of the required parking for the site. Compact parking,
when proposed, shall adhere to the following:

     a. Compact parking spaces may be utilized to provide up to a maximum of
ten percent (10%) of the total parking requirement for the site.:

       (1) A maximum of ten percent (10%) of the total parking requirement for
the site; or
      (2) A maximum of twenty five percent (25%) of the total parking
requirement for the site when combined with the following:

         (A) A landscaped plaza area near the primary entrance to the building
associated with compact parking spaces that is equal in area to fifteen percent
(15%) of the total building square footage;

        (B) Pedestrian amenities, such as, but not limited to, benches, throughout
the plaza; and

        (C) Pedestrian pathways from the primary entrance to and through the
plaza which connect to street sidewalks and neighboring sites or uses; and

     b. All compact parking spaces shall:

        (1) Measure no less than eight feet six inches (8'6") wide and sixteen feet
(16') deep;

       (2) Be located near the primary entrance of each building on site;

     (23) Be clearly identified and shown on an approved site plan or site plan
amendment; and

      (34) Be marked on the surface as "Compact".

…



9-25-090: DEVIATIONS FROM STRICT COMPLIANCE FOR PARKING:

   A. Natural Adjustment Range: In recognition that many factors can be unique to
various potential uses of land in the city, parking requirements established in
section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter, may be modified to increase or
decrease the parking calculation requirements by a maximum ten percent (10%)
without necessity of requesting a formal modification as outlined in this section.
Parking requirements for residential uses listed in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1
may not be modified under the provisions of the natural adjustment range.
 B. Deviations From Strict Compliance: The number of parking spaces required
under section 9-25-060 of this chapter, or the parking calculation requirements
shown in section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter, may be deviated in
accordance with the provisions in this section. The purpose of such a deviation is to
provide flexibility beyond natural adjustments to this chapter in order to adapt to
specific circumstances, reduce potential environmental impacts, and conserve
resources. In cases where parking in amounts other than required herein may be
appropriate, the planning commission may approve a request for a modification, by
way of a parking study, to increase or reduce parking requirements based on
findings found in subsection C of this section. When a deviation from strict
compliance is approved by the planning commission, parking shall be provided
according to the standard approved under that deviation with a natural adjustment
that only provides for parking closer to the requirement being deviated. A deviation
from strict compliance as outlined in this section is not necessary for a proposed
increase in parking for residential uses.

  C. Parking Study: When a parking study is required for a request to deviate from
the parking requirements calculated according to section 9-25-100, table 9-25-1 of
this chapter, or when an applicant requests a deviation in the number of parking
spaces required under section 9-25-060 of this chapter, a parking study shall be
prepared and submitted by the applicant for review. Parking studies shall be
prepared by a professional engineer licensed to work in the state of Utah and
reviewed as a part of a site plan application.

   1. Requirements: The study shall provide:

    a. Planning and traffic engineering data, including estimates of parking
demand based on the most current recommendations from the Institute Of
Transportation Engineers;

     b. Data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same or
highly comparable to the proposed application as indicated and justified by density,
scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location;

     c. The source of data used to develop the study's recommendations;

     d. A recommendation for parking requirements or calculations applicable to
the site for which the study is being prepared based on site specific factors, data,
circumstances, and conditions compared against study collected data; and

     e. The name and qualifications of the persons preparing the study.

   2. Review And Recommendation: City staff shall review the study and make a
recommendation to the planning commission concerning the validity of the parking
study, the appropriateness of the conclusions reached, and the appropriate
number of parking spaces that should be required.

   3. Number Of Parking Spaces: The planning commission shall determine the
required number of parking spaces after:
     a. Considering the recommendations of the parking study and city staff; and

     b. Making the findings required under subsection C4 of this section,
according to the type of application.

    4. Findings Required: The planning commission may approve a deviation from
strict compliance for the number of parking spaces required or the calculation used
only after making the findings of this subsection:

   a. For commercial, retail, office, and mixed use developments, the planning
commission must find that:

      (1) Adequate parking will be provided;

       (2) The total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each
individual establishment in the development is overly burdensome for the site
specific factors of the application;

       (3) Estimated trade offs between businesses which are open when others
are closed will not overburden the parking provided;

        (4) There is an adequate availability of approved on street or shared parking
for all associated uses;

       (5) Site or use specific conditions or factors do not provide for compliance
with the parking calculation used or parking requirements outlined in section 9-25-
100, table 9-25-1 of this chapter;

      (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations,
provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking; and

      (7) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will
have or will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;

      (8) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment;
or

   b. For multi-family or planned residential developments, the planning
commission must find that:

      (1) Adequate parking will be provided;

       (2) The size of housing units, considered by the number of bedrooms and
required visitor parking, does not support the calculated parking requirements of
this chapter;
        (3) The size of project does not warrant the calculated parking requirements
of this chapter;

       (4) The specific parking dedicated for use by visitors and recreational
vehicles is appropriate;

      (5) Any potential for future expansion or addition to the development will
have or will provide adequate parking for that expansion or addition;

      (6) Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit stations,
provide adequate transportation to offset any reduction in parking;

       (7) ADA compliant parking requirements are not proposed for adjustment;

      (8) Restrictive covenants specific to the development make provisions to
control parking such that parking for the development will not impact neighboring
properties or public rights of way; and

        (9) The availability of approved on street parking can be utilized for required
visitor parking or to offset the requested deviation.



9-27-140: LOTS AND YARDS:

…

  C. Substandard Lots: No lot or parcel having less than the minimum width and
area required by the zone where it is located may be divided from a larger parcel of
land, whether by subdivision or metes and bounds, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of building or development as a lot except as permitted by
this section or by the appeals and variance hearing officer pursuant to the
requirements of this title.

    1. (Reserved) (Rep. by Ord. 1408, 10-15-2019)

   21. If a portion of a lot or parcel of land which meets minimum lot area
requirements is acquired for public use in any manner, including dedication,by
condemnation or purchase, and such acquisition reduces the minimum area
required, the remainder of such lot or parcel shall nevertheless be considered as
having the required minimum lot area if all of the following conditions are met:

      a. Such lot or parcel contains a rectangular space of at least thirty by forty
feet (30 x 40') exclusive of applicable front and side yard requirements, and
exclusive of one-half (1/2) of the applicable rear yard requirements, and such
rectangular space is usable for a principal use or structure.
      b. The remainder of such lot or parcel of land has an area of at least one-half
1/
( 2) of the required lot area of the zone in which it is located.

     c. The remainder of such lot or parcel of land has access to a public street
with a width of not less than twenty feet (20').

d.       The acquisition or dedication of land for public use is not connected with
an application filed under Title 9 or Title 17 of this code.

.…



9-27-180: SWIMMING POOLS:

Swimming pools of permanent construction not enclosed within a building shall be
set back at least five feet (5') from all property lines and shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall having a lockable self-closing gate and a height of at
least six feet (6') which conforms to international building code requirements. This
required fence or wall may encompass any amount of the lot or parcel, except that
a swimming pool on the same lot and which is accessory to a dwelling unit shall not
be located within the front yard setback. For purposes of locating swimming pools
on corner lots, a corner lot shall have one "front", which is defined as parallel with
the side of the structure containing the primary entrance. A swimming pool shall
not be located within a public utility easement or clear view area (section 9-27-
080 of this chapter) located along the side or rear property lines without prior
written permission of all affected utility companies or in accordance with section 9-
27-070 of this chapter.

 A. Outdoor Pools:
    1. Private residential swimming pools, residential swimming pools, or public
swimming pools (collectively “pools”) of permanent construction not enclosed
within a building shall comply with section 305 Barrier Requirements and section
321 Lighting Requirements of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (ICC-
ISPSC) as currently adopted by the State of Utah.
    2. Pools accessory to multi-family dwellings and public swimming pools shall
submit evidence of plan approval from the respective health department at the
time of the building permit.

B. Setbacks and Location:
   1. Pools not enclosed within a building shall be set back from property lines a
minimum of five feet (5’).
    2. Pools which are accessory to a dwelling unit shall not be located within the
front yard setback. Exceptions for Corner lots are permitted as described in 9-27-
180(C) below.
    3. Pools and pool equipment shall not be located within a clear view area as
described in section 9-27-080 of this chapter or a public utility easement located
along the side or rear property lines without prior written permission of all affected
utility companies or in accordance with section 9-27-070 of this chapter.

 C. Corner Lots:
    1. For purposes of locating pools on corner lots, each front yard shall be
designated as either the primary front yard or a secondary front yard. The primary
front yard shall be the front yard most parallel with the side of the structure
containing the primary entrance.
A pool may be located within a secondary front yard setback on a corner lot as
designated in 9-27-180(C)(1) above.



17-1-120: APPEALS:

 A. Appeal may be made to the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer from any
decision, determination or requirement of the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission hereunder by filing with the community development department an
application and notice thereof in writing within fifteen (15) days after such decision,
determination or requirement is made. Such notice shall set forth in detail the
action and grounds upon which the subdivider or other adversely affected party
person deems himself or herself aggrieved themselves adversely affected.

  B. The Zoning Administrator shall set the appeal for hearing before the Appeals
and Variance Hearing Officer within a reasonable time after receipt of the appeal.
Such hearing may be continued by order of the Appeals and Variance Hearing
Officer. The appellant shall be notified of the appeal hearing date at least seven (7)
days prior to the hearing. After hearing the appeal, the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision, determination or
requirement appealed and enter any such orders as are in harmony with the spirit
and purpose of this title. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall notify the
appellant in writing of its ruling. The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings
and actions in furtherance of the matter appealed, pending a decision of the
Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer.
C. An aggrieved adversely affected party may appeal the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer's decision to District Court as provided in Utah Code Annotated title
10, chapter 9a.



17-5-030: STREETS:

…

H. Fire Apparatus Access Roads: Fire apparatus access is essential to successful
fire-fighting and rescue operations. Fire department vehicles vary widely in size and
operational needs and must be able to maneuver into position to properly
undertake their fire-fighting activities. The needs of the city will therefore vary with
the equipment used include those from mutual-aid companies that may respond
from outside the city. Access roads must be designed to provide the fire
department with the required access to all structures on a site.

1. All fire apparatus access roads must meet the requirements of this section and
applicable requirements of international fire code, including appendix D.

2. Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings hereafter constructed shall be
accessible to fire department apparatus by way of an approved fire apparatus
access road with an asphalt, concrete or other approved driving surface capable of
supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus weighing up to 75,000 pounds.

3. Where a fire hydrant is located on a fire apparatus access road, the minimum
road width shall be twenty-six (26) feet, exclusive of shoulders.

4. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed ten (10) percent in grade, except as
specifically modified elsewhere in this title, or as approved by the fire marshal.

5. The minimum turning radius for fire apparatus access shall be twenty-eight (28)
feet, unless a different radius is approved by the fire marshal.

6. Dead end fire apparatus access roads shall meet the following minimum paved
widths and include turnarounds according to the following:

a. For fire apparatus access roads up to one-hundred fifty (150) feet in length a
minimum paved width of twenty (20) feet is required.

b. For fire apparatus access roads between one-hundred fifty-one (151) feet and
five-hundred (500) feet in length a minimum paved width of twenty (20) feet and a
minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-
six (96) foot diameter cul-de-sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.
c. For fire apparatus access roads between five-hundred one (501) feet and seven-
hundred fifty (750) feet in length a minimum paved width of twenty-six (26) feet and
a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or
ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-de-sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.

d. For fire apparatus access roads over seven-hundred fifty (750) feet in length
special approval of the fire marshal is required.

7. If a fire apparatus access road is gated, the road and gate shall comply with the
requirements of subsection 9-27-200 of this title.

8. Fire apparatus access roads shall be marked with permanent NO PARKING-FIRE
LANE signs complying with Figure 17-5-2. Signs shall have a minimum dimension of
twelve (12) inches wide by eighteen (18) inches high and have red littersletters on a
white reflective background.

…



17-9-060: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:

…

C. To make a parcel boundary adjustment, a property owner shall execute a
boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement and
record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with the county recorder.

1. A Parcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city’s review unless any of
the subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.

2. Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:

a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

b. Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended.

3. Within 14 days from the receipt of a complete application for a parcel boundary
adjustment, the zoning administrator or designee shall review and approve
applications that comply with the following requirements:

a. No additional parcels will result from the adjustment.

b. Existing dwelling unit(s) and other structures on the parcel(s) will maintain
compliance with the current setbacks for the zoning district in which they are
located. Where existing dwelling unit(s) or structures are nonconforming as to
current setback requirements, the amount or degree of nonconformity will not
increase as a result of the parcel boundary adjustment.

c. The proposed parcel boundary adjustment will not create a violation of any land
use ordinance or other city ordinances.

4. If the zoning administrator or their designee finds that an application is deficient
or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement,
they shall provide written notice to the property owners of the deficiency or
additional information required within the 14-day timeframe from the date of the
initial submittal. Such notice shall include the following:

a. A description of the specific deficiency or additional information required.

b. A statement that the boundary line agreement will be approved upon the
correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information.

c. A statement that failure to correct the deficiency or provide the additional
information may result in denial and/or expiration of the application.

5. Upon receipt of the information requested in subsection (C)(4) above, the
zoning administrator or designee shall review the complete application according
to the provisions of subsection (C)(3) above.

…
