                                 Development Review Committee
                                      1020 East Pioneer Road
                                        Draper, UT 84020
                                          April 13, 2021

To:               Draper City Planning Commission
                  Business Date: April 22, 2021

From:             Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:      Moore Tennis Court – Conditional Use Permit Request
         Application No.: USE-30-2021
         Applicant:        Tyson Moore
         Project Location: 12041 S 645 E
         Current Zoning: RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² lot minimum) Zone
         Acreage:          0.46 Acres (Approximately 20,038 ft2)
         Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the RA2 zone,
                           regarding an increase in fence height to 10-feet for a future
                           tennis court.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit for approximately
0.46 acres located on the east side of 645 E, at approximately 12041 S (Exhibit B). The
property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that a Conditional Use Permit
be approved to allow for a 10-foot fence in the rear yard of the property for a future tennis
court.

The property is used as a single-family residence. The property is Lot 4 of the Draperville
Farms Amended Subdivision and the home was built in approximately 2013.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Low/Medium land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is



Moore Tennis Court                                                    App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  1
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA2 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit D). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA2 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA2 zoning classification surrounds the property on all
sides.

Fencing. The tennis court will be constructed in the rear yard of the property (Exhibit E). The
applicant is requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a fence height of 10-feet. The fence will
surround a tennis court and will be inside of a 6-foot existing vinyl fence that surrounds the
back yard of the property. The proposed 10-foot fence will be black powder-coated, and is



Moore Tennis Court                                                       App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  2
proposed to be located against the complete rear property line; and will go down both side
yard property lines approximately 60-feet. It will continue from that point in the middle of
the back yard. There will be a distance of approximately 60-feet between the home and
the tennis court.

DCMC Section 9-27-080(E) sets a cap for fencing within the back yard to 6-feet in height, but
allows the Planning Commission to approve fencing up to 10-feet in height with a
Conditional Use Permit.

         E. Other Visual Obstructions: Fences, walls, and other visual obstructions, not including
            trees, between six feet (6') and ten feet (10') in height shall be allowed only behind the
            front wall plane, and shall require a conditional use permit. Any such visual
            obstruction over six feet (6') in height must meet the setback requirements for
            accessory buildings unless otherwise permitted by a conditional use permit, except
            that no wall shall be constructed within a utility easement without the prior written
            permission of all affected utility companies. No fences, walls, or other visual
            obstructions over ten feet (10') in height are allowed, excluding trees.

Criteria For Approval.
The criteria for review and potential approval of a conditional use permit request is found
in Section 9-5-080(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for such
requests as:

         E. Approval Standards: The standards of this subsection shall apply to the issuance
             of a conditional use permit:
          1. A conditional use permit may be issued for a use to be located within a zone
             where the particular conditional use is allowed by the use regulations of the
             zone.
          2. Reasonable conditions may be imposed as necessary to substantially mitigate
             reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use. These
             conditions may include conditions concerning use, construction, character,
             location, landscaping, screening, parking, hours of operation, and other matters
             relating to the purposes and objectives of this section. Such conditions shall be
             expressly set forth in the motion authorizing the conditional use permit.
          3. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
             cannot be substantially mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
             denied.
          4. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered in determining whether a
             conditional use permit application should be approved, approved with
             conditions, or denied because reasonable conditions cannot be imposed to
             achieve compliance with applicable standards:




Moore Tennis Court                                                          App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                     3
              a. The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                 requirements of the city's general plan and this title;
              b. The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use;
              c. Whether the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or existing
                 development in the vicinity;
              d. The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                 area;
              e. The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area;
              f. The safeguards proposed or provided to ensure adequate utilities,
                 transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,
                 landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                 circulation;
              g. The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                 emissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                 facility or use; and
              h. The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the city, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.
          5. The planning commission may request additional information as may be
             reasonably needed to determine whether the requirements of this subsection E
             can be met.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.



Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



Moore Tennis Court                                                     App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                  4
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a decision based on the findings listed below and the criteria for
approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:

         1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                  Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                  site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
         2.       That any lighting installed as part of the tennis court comply with the lighting
                  requirements, including foot candles, found in DCMC Chapter 9-20-040 and
                  9-20-080.
         3.       If the fence is to be located within a public utility easement, an easement
                  encroachment permit is required prior to obtaining a building permit for the
                  fence. If the easement encroachment permit cannot be obtained, the fencing
                  shall be shifted outside of the public utility easement.
         4.       A building permit for the fence is required and shall be obtained prior to
                  installation.

The findings for approval as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable mitigation measures can be placed on the conditional use to
                  alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.

The findings for denial as are follows:

         1.       Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                  alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit , as
requested by Tyson Moore application USE-0030-2021, based on the findings and subject
to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Conditional Use Permit ,
as requested by Tyson Moore application USE-0030-2021, based on the findings and



Moore Tennis Court                                                        App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                    5
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2021and as modified by
the findings and conditions below:

         1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Conditional Use Permit , as requested
by Tyson Moore application USE-0030-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated April 13, 2021




Moore Tennis Court                                                   App. # USE-0030-2021
Conditional Use Permit Request                 6
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      None.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      None.

Building Division Review.

       1.      None.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      None.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
