Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: December 16, 2021
Re: Vista 600 West – Master Area Plan Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Master Area Plan and Text Amendment for approximately 15.24 acres located on the east side of 600 West, at approximately 13645 South 600 West. The property is currently zoned TSD . The applicant is requesting that a Master Area Plan Amendment and Text Amendment be approved to eliminate the office and hotel uses from the plan and increase the number of residential buildings. The findings are as follows: Master Area Plan Amendment
The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The proposal complies with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.
2.   The master circulation plan adequately serves the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3.   The MAP provides for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
4.   The development standards and design guidelines are high quality transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.
Text Amendment
The findings for approval as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
Master Area Plan Amendment
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.   The proposal does not comply with all of the required elements under DCMC Section 9-14-060.
2.   The master circulation plan is not adequate to serve the MAP area and areas surrounding the project.
3.   The MAP does not provide for a community character substantially consistent with the purposes of the TSD, including the provision for at least twenty five percent (25%) commercial, retail, or office uses.
4.   The development standards and design guidelines are not high quality transit oriented design standards, including the use of high quality building materials.
Text Amendment
The findings for denial as are follows:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance.
3.   The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance.
4.   The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan.
5.   The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit.
6.   The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type PC Staff Report 12/9/2021 Cover Memo