NovusAGENDA
CITY COUNCIL AGENDA March 16, 2021 at 5:30 PM
1020 E. Pioneer Rd. Draper, UT 84020 Council Chambers ELECTRONIC MEETING NOTICE This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2-1-040. WRITTEN DETERMINATION 2021-16 Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.
The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
Federal, state and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper show an encouraging downward trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper population, vigilance is required so that there isn’t a rebound in cases and hospitalizations.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health departments health orders.
COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of Draper City residents.
The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.
To participate, please see the options below:
Listen through the Draper City Website – https://www.draperutah.gov/95/Agendas-Minutes
Email comments to public.comment@draperutah.gov . These will become part of the public record.
Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request for the Zoom meeting ID including your name, address, and phone number which you will be calling from to public.comment@draperutah.gov .
a 5:30 PM STUDY MEETING 1. Interview candidates for the Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control Board (TRSSDACB) a 2. Discussion: Bench Naming Policy - Rhett Ogden a 3. Council/Manager Reports a 7:00 PM   BUSINESS MEETING 1. Call to Order 2. Proclamation: Honoring Canyons School District teachers Milo Maughan and Clief Castleton a 3. Public Comments To be considerate of everyone attending the meeting, public comments will be restricted to items that are not listed on this or a future agenda and limited to three minutes per person. Comments which cannot be made within these limits should be submitted in writing to the City Recorder prior to noon the day before the meeting. Comments pertaining to an item on the agenda should not be given at this time but should be held until that item is called. 4. Consent Items a. Approval of February 27, 2021 City Council Retreat Minutes b. Approval of March 2, 2021 City Council Meeting Minutes c. Approval of Resolution #21-11 Approve Resolution #21-11 amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule adding a new fee for Master Area Plan or Amendments and a new fee for Zoning Verification Letter. Staff: Bob Wylie d. Approval of Resolution #21-22, appointing Linda Peterson as Communications Director Staff: Hazel Dunsmore e. Acknowledgment of Absence of Council Member Green from the City for Military Leave Acknowledgment of Absence of Council Member Green from the City for Military Leave 5. Action Item: Resolution #21-23, appointing two members to the Administration Control Board of the Traverse Ridge Special Service District (TRSSDACB) a 6. Public Hearing: Ordinance #1481, Shipp Barn (Stokes) Development Agreement (Legislative Action) On the request of Nate Shipp for a Development Agreement on 2.52 acres of property located at approximately 570 E Stokes Avenue to allow a single home to be built on the property, with a subdivision in the future for an additional three lots. Staff report by Jennifer Jastremsky. a 7. Public Hearing: Approval of Resolution #21-10 Approval of Resolution #21-10 amending the current FY2021 budget.  Staff report by Jared Zacharias a 8. Recess to a Draper City Municipal Building Authority Meeting 9. Adjournment SALT LAKE COUNTY AND UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH I, the City Recorder of Draper City, certify that copies of the agenda for the Draper City Council meeting to be held March 16, 2021 , were posted on the Draper City Electronic Bulletin Board, Draper City website www.draperutah.gov , the Utah Public Notice website at www.utah.gov/pmn , and sent by email to the Salt Lake Tribune and the Deseret News . Date Posted: March 12, 2021 Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder  Draper City, State of Utah   In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, any individuals needing special accommodations or services during this meeting shall notify Laura Oscarson, City Recorder at (801) 576-6502 or laura.oscarson@draperutah.gov , at least 24 hours prior to the meeting.