Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: Planning Commission
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: April 22, 2021
Re: City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment Request Comments: This City initiated application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment for the purpose of amending multiple portions of Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Titles 9 and 17 to address recent changes to Utah State Code.
The 2021 Utah State Legislative Session saw several bills that dealt with land use regulations and subdivisions. Draper City now has to amend DCMC in order to comply with the new regulations. The findings are as follows: For a recommendation of approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
6.The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For a recommendation of denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2.  The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3.  The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4.  The proposed amendment will create a conflict with another section or part of this title or the general plan;
5.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
6.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 4/16/2021 Cover Memo