                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                     February 16, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: February 25, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner II
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6522, travis.vanekelenburg@draperutah.gov

Re:     Foret Floral – Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit Request
        Application No.: USE-0002-2021
        Applicant:        Lucia Foret
        Project Location: 623 E Rockwell Vista
        Current Zoning: C-2 (Neighborhood Commercial District) Zone
        Acreage:          0.23 Acres (Approximately 10,019 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Conditional Use Permit in the C-2 zone
                          regarding a Home Occupation Business as a florist.



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit for
approximately 0.23 acres located on the north side of Rockwell Vista, at approximately 623
E Rockwell Vista (Exhibit B). The property is currently zoned C-2. The applicant is requesting
that a Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit be approved to allow for a Home
Occupation Business as a florist.

The subject property is part of the Rockwell Estates Subdivision that was first recorded in
2005 and amended in 2016. This property is in the South Mountain Agreement Area, and
has been reviewed against the 1999 Draper City Municipal Code (1999 DCMC).




Foret Floral                                                        App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Residential
Medium Density land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the C-2 zoning classification (Exhibit D). According to the
1999 DCMC Section 9-5-030 the purpose of the C-2 zone is to “to provide areas, in
appropriate locations where convenience buying outlets may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. The regulations of this district are designed to promote
a combination of retail and service facilities which, in character and scale, are necessary to meet
day-to-day needs of area residents.” C-2 zoning surrounds the property an all sides except for
to the north which is a rail line and trial way area owned by Draper City.

Proposed Use. The Home Occupation will be as a single florist that will not have employees
at the residence with the exception of the resident applicant. The home will be used to put
the flower arrangements together from purchased flowers and greenery for funerals,
weddings, bridal bouquets, etc. No customers will be coming to the residence (Exhibit E).
The applicant will use their own private vehicle for floral delivery and the vehicle will not



Foret Floral                                                           App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                      2
have advertising on it of any kind. There will be no signage for the business, and the
business hours will be from 9:00AM to 5:00PM Monday through Friday. Inside the home
the proposed Home Occupation will utilize 200 ft² (Exhibit F).

Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit request is found in Sections 9-2-104 and 9-4-140 of the 1999 DCMC.
These sections depict the standard of review for such requests as:

    Conditional Use Permit Review 1999 DCMC Section 9-4-140.
    f. Factors. The following factors shall be reviewed and considered by the Planning
    Commission in determining whether a conditional use permit application should be
    approved, denied, or approved with conditions.

        1.      The harmony and compliance of the proposed use with the objectives and
                requirements of the City General Plan and Zoning Ordinances.

        2.      The suitability of the specific property for the proposed use.

        3.      The development or lack of development adjacent to the proposed site and
                the harmony of the proposed use with the existing uses in the
                neighborhood.

        4.      Whether or not the proposed use or facility may be injurious to potential or
                existing development within the vicinity.



        5.      The economic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding
                area.

        6.      The aesthetic impact of the proposed facility or use on the surrounding area.

        7.      Whether or not the proposed use or facility is necessary or desirable to the
                City.

        8.      The number of other similar conditional uses in the area and the public need
                for the proposed conditional use.

        9.      The present and future requirements for transportation, traffic, water, sewer,
                and other utilities, for the proposed site and surrounding area.

        10.     The safeguards proposed or provided to insure adequate utilities,
                transportation access, drainage, parking, loading space, lighting, screening,




Foret Floral                                                         App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                     3
                landscaping, open space, fire protection, and pedestrian and vehicular
                circulation.

        11.     The safeguards provided or proposed to prevent noxious or offensive
                omissions such as noise, glare, dust, pollutants and odor from the proposed
                facility or use.

        12.     The safeguards provided or proposed to minimize other adverse effects from
                the proposed facility or use on persons or property in the area.

        13.      The impact of the proposed facility or use on the health, safety, and welfare
                 of the City, the area, and persons owning or leasing property in the area.

        14.     The appropriateness and compatibility of the proposed use with the use
                tables set forth in this Title for the zone in which the property is located.

        Home Occupations 1999 DCMC Section 9-4-140.
        a.   Notwithstanding other sections of this Title, a home occupation shall be
              considered a permitted use in any residential, multiple family and agriculture
              zone if the proposed use meets all of the following conditions:
        1.    The home occupation is a home office, beauty salon, pre-school or day care
              business, as regulated by the State of Utah.
        2.    The business is owned and operated by the resident of the home.
        3.    No employees, other than residents of the home, utilize the facility.
        4.    For beauty salon, pre-school or day care business, the hours of operation do
              not begin before 7 a.m. or extend beyond 8 p.m.
        5.    A business license is obtained from, and continually maintained with the City.
        6.    All facilities are inspected by the Fire Department prior to initial use and
              meet Fire Department standards at all times.
        7.    All drop-off or customer parking is accommodated on paved portions of the
              property.

 Information regarding the proposed use will be provided to the Neighborhood Association
 for the area in which the proposed use is to be located. The Neighborhood Association will
 have fourteen (14) days from the date of mailing to respond to the Zoning Administrator
 with comments regarding the proposed use. The Zoning Administrator will then review
 the response and determine if the proposed use is to be permitted, permitted with
 additional conditions, or will require a Conditional Use Permit.

        b.      Any home occupation which does not meet the provisions outlined above
                shall be processed as a Conditional Use in accordance with Section 9-2-104 of
                this Title.




Foret Floral                                                           App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                      4
REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found
in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Conditional Use Permit submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the
Conditional Use Permit submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION



Staff finds that the application complies with the DCMC and recommends that the Zoning
Administrator review the request, receive public comment, and approve the application
based on the findings listed below and the criteria for approval, as listed within the staff
report.

If the Planning Commission decides to approve the request, staff recommends they include
the following conditions of approval:
        1.     All requirements of the Draper City Fire Department and Draper City Building
               Official shall be satisfied throughout the operation of the home occupation
               on the property.
        2.     The business shall meet all requirements of 1999 DCMC Section 9-4-140,
               except as provided by this permit.
        3.     The home occupation is required to maintain approval and adequate
               licensure from any and all necessary agencies.

The findings for approval as are follows:

        1.      The detrimental effects of the proposed home occupation conditional use



Foret Floral                                                        App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                   5
                permit can be reasonably mitigated by applicable conditions of approval.



The findings for denial as are follows:

        1.      Reasonable mitigation measures cannot be placed on the conditional use to
                alleviate anticipated detrimental effects.



MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the Home Occupation Conditional
Use Permit , as requested by Lucia Foret, application USE-0002-2021, based on the findings
and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 16, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the Home Occupation
Conditional Use Permit , as requested by Lucia Foret, application USE-0002-2021, based on
the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 16,
2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit , as requested by Lucia Foret, application USE-0002-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated February 16, 2021




Foret Floral                                                       App. # USE-0002-2021
Home Occupation CUP Request                   6
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.

Fire Division Review.

       1.      No Comments.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LANDUSE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN
                                                                       (-LiHor) Nosroov - roN3crvo
EE
9;,E
:;EBP
E E F F;
E-=i'EEr
E5g iEHEE
;cEi:EEE
!:: EEA?3
EEEesEEEE
.:E EF E$.qE A
                                                                                        4
                                                                                       \<
                                                                                                G
                                                                                                     G
                                                                                                1 q---
                                     ./.^\Kar -d"\ro-                                           **s
                 ztiZ4o
                        ^c1"9-" -'\
                                . _---'                                                        \g te
                                                                                                \p -B
(                 -'t
                        t',
                              -.'-
                                     *
                                         -/
                                                               .Jl


                                                                     r'1
                                                                     *1
                                                                     E-l
                                                                     ol
                                                                                                     )rE
                                                                                                      $\   'li
                                                               :il
                                                               =
                                                               \.:ti
                                                          q                                                  I
                                                        No                                                  =t
                                                        GIY                                                 3t
                 \"s                                      ci
                                                                                                            HI
                                                                                                            @
 EXHIBIT F
FLOOR PLAN
                                                                   (J-=uor) Noslocv -s3v{oH
                                                                                              =cN=cvc
            sF,
            EZ
            a-
            E*

                    e.2
                    Ed
                           rl :   F E-* ; " ;e
                                    EE E -E
                                  ?Hi eP e
                                  B:i ;: i,     :=
                                                     I
                                                     E   2


                                                               E
                                                               Ef;
                                                               4A
                                  3;EEi EEE :-                                                                !
                   Egd
            qz
                                                         4     i Ee                                           g
                   81.:
                        l"ll                                   i   ;E
            3E hEE
               3Eg                EEaE EE; EE   E "E E A. EE5
                                                         E;- BE .Yq.                                     I
                                                                                                         6    e
                                                                                                              c
                                                                                                              B
                                                             !e?ee-E E;                                       e
                                                             !! ?E PEic 3   E                           qe
                   _Ec E
                           l=l    iEEEEECEEEecEiusE EE=EfESEcE                                          3E a
                   E9<
                   alA     l:t
                           l1l                               E;:EFEE::E
                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                             cg=
                  EE{5                                       !EiEsil:ii                                      11
                           lEl ;cE'c:*EEEiEi=E?E:E*EEE EEFEpEEE:q                                            F:
                  EEfi tol                                                                                   ??.
                           lEll
rSz
 {')
      r-)
 :5
 >'. <-
.3
   o '
  \S-
