                              Development Review Committee
                                   1020 East Pioneer Road
                                     Draper, UT 84020
                                    September 30, 2021

To:              Draper City Planning Commission
                 Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:            Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, AICP, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, Todd.Draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     Summit Commerce Center – Site Plan Amendment Request
        Application No.: SPR-0128-2021
        Applicant:        Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC
                          and Exeter Draper Land, LLC
        Project Location: 13004 S. Pony Express Rd.
        Current Zoning: M1 (Light Manufacturing) Zone
        Acreage:          26.937 Acres (Approximately 1,173,376 ft2)
        Request:          Request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment in the M1 zone
                          regarding construction of a new commercial building on a site
                          already approved for construction of an industrial building. The
                          proposed commercial building will be approximately 150,961 ft2
                          in size and be utilized for retail.




BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a request for approval of a Site Plan Amendment for an approximately
26.937 acre site located on the east side of Pony Express Rd. and south of Golden Harvest
Rd., at approximately 13004 S. Pony Express Rd. (Exhibit B). The applicant is requesting that
a Site Plan Amendment be approved to allow for the additional development of a
commercial building on the site. The site was previously approved for the construction of
an industrial building which is currently under construction on the site.

This property is subject to a development agreement between Exeter Draper PSA, LLC and
the City. The development agreement was entered into in April 7, 2020 and land use map



Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   1
and zoning map amendments for the property were also approved at that time. The
property comprises all of the original Greenfield Farms Ph 1 subdivision plat, excepting a
small piece that is part of the adjacent Lone Peak Parkway. Greenfield Farms was recorded
in 1976 and included 22 single-family lots. The internal public roadways of Wheatfield Circle
and Wheatfield Way from the Greenfield Farms Ph 1 Subdivision were vacated by the City
Council in December 2020. The individual homes were then removed from the properties
and the lots in the Greenfield Farms Ph 1 Subdivision were consolidated and recorded as
the single lot Summit Commerce Center Subdivision (Exhibit H) in April 2021.

A Site Plan application for the construction of the industrial building was approved by the
Planning Commission July 8, 2021 subject to compliance with conditions listed in the staff
report. Planning staff approved revised plans submitted by the applicant as required for
compliance with the conditions of approval by the Planning Commission on September 14,
2021. A building permit for the industrial building to be constructed on the site was issued
September 27, 2021.

ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Business / Light
Manufacturing land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit C). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the M1 zoning classification, supporting light




Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   2
manufacturing, warehousing, retail, and other service uses on the property (Exhibit D).
According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the M1
zone is to “to provide areas for uses involving processing and assembly of manufactured goods,
warehousing, and material storage. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust,
and fumes are excluded from this zone.” On the southeast, the property is abutted by RA1
(Residential, 40,000 ft2 minimum lot size) zoning and on the southwest by the DC
(Destination Commercial) zone. To the west the property is abutted by a canal and Rocky
Mountain Power corridor that are zoned RA2 (Residential, 20,000 ft2 minimum lot size). The
CBP (Business/ Manufacturing Park) zone is located to the north across Golden Harvest
Road, and Pony Express Road and the I-15 interstate highway are located to the East.

Site Plan Layout. The applicant is proposing to construct a new commercial building on the
eastern portion of the lot (Exhibit E). The plans to build this second building on this portion
of the lot were identified and contemplated at the time of the development agreement and
zoning change. The building that is the subject of this application is approximately 150,961
ft2 in size and fronts onto Pony Express Rd. Access to the property comes from both
Golden Harvest Road and Pony Express Road. The building layout portends use of the
building by a single retail tenant. General retail is listed as a permitted use in the
development agreement. Parking for employees and customers is provided on both the
east and the south of the building. Site amenities including a picnic table, benches, and bike
racks are provided near parking and entrance areas.

After the initial site plan was approved, concerns have arisen regarding the storm water
and irrigation systems, most notably with an existing ditch on the eastern side of the
property (exhibit K) The applicant has proposed to leave the existing ditch in place, provide
the city with a redesign of the roadway, and pay a fee-in-lieu of installing the required
roadway improvements as part of this application. The currently approved site plan lists
the area as future development with public frontage improvements to be provided under a
separate submittal, and the currently approved grading and drainage plans failed to
identify the existence of the ditch. The proposed plan amendments as submitted show
relocation of the ditch to straddle the property along the Pony Express right-of-way. As of
the writing of this report no comments from the City Engineer regarding the acceptability
of this location or the fee-in-lieu request have been received. It is anticipated that the City
Engineer will provide these comments to the Planning Commission at their meeting.

Architecture. The architectural elevations renderings (Exhibit G) show a tilt up style concrete
building. Due to the nature of the construction, materials being used, and the layout of
building, the building design is not in strict compliance with ordinance standards for
horizontal and vertical articulation of the façade and roofline.

The applicant has submitted requests for deviation from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C)(1),
9-22-040(C)(2), and 9-22-040(D)(2) in response to the intended design of the structure
(Exhibit L).



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    3
    9-22-040: Building Design:
    C. Facade Articulation: Buildings designed with completely flat facades and monotone color
    schemes are not permitted. All buildings shall demonstrate articulation of all facades.
    1. Horizontal or vertical facade variations shall occur at least every thirty feet (30') or along
    a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal length of buildings with facades one
    hundred feet (100') or greater. This shall be accomplished by using methods such as:
    a. Variation in the surface plane that may include pop outs, bays, and recesses;
    b. Variation in the surface pattern such as arches, banding, and paneling; or
    c. Distinguished treatment of windows, doors, and eaves that may include molding or
    framing.
    2. Buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or greater in total length shall have at
    least one significant facade variation from the primary wall plane whose depth is at least five
    feet (5') and whose width is at least twenty feet (20'). There shall be no uninterrupted facades
    one hundred feet (100') or greater in length.
    D. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall demonstrate an appropriate roof height that is
    compatible with the building's location, and vary rooflines in order to add architectural
    interest and avoid the appearance or sense of monotonous roofline expanses. All buildings
    shall:
    1. Demonstrate appropriate roof height for the location based on zoning regulations and
    the height of buildings within the immediate area;
    2. Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long, continuous, and
    undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;
    3. Use similar materials and colors on the back of false fronts, parapets, cornices, or other
    parts of the building which extend beyond the roofline or main building so that the building
    appears cohesive from all views; and
    4. Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need to be mounted on
    the roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of equipment that may not be fully shielded
    shall be painted a color which is compatible with the roofing or parapet materials.

The architecture of the building does provide some vertical articulation at the roofline, but
not sufficiently to meet the strict requirements of DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C)(1) or 9-
22040(D)(2). All four (4) facades have long roofline spans over thirty feet (30’) and over fifty
feet (50’) without a vertical articulation. The largest of these spans without a roofline
articulation is across the main entrance on the east and is approximately one-hundred
thirty-seven feet (138’) in length. On the south elevation the largest span without vertical
roofline articulation is one-hundred thirteen feet (113’), on the west elevation eighty feet
(80’), and on the north elevation one-hundred thirty feet (130’). The height of vertical
articulations range between one foot (1’) and six feet (6’).

The alternate requirement for compliance withy in DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) for
façade variations is that a horizontal or vertical articulation occur along at least 60% of
horizontal length of the facade. On the northern and southern façades there are both



Summit Commerce Center                                                   App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                       4
horizontal and vertical articulations in the form of pop-out treatments around some of the
windows, a change in materials (stone veneer) near the easternmost windows, and
extended roofline parapets. The combination of vertical and horizontal articulations cover
approximately 64% of the northern façade and 76% of the southern facade as calculated by
staff. On the eastern façade in addition to similar horizontal variations for window
treatments as the northern and southern facades, the main entryway also provides
additional vertical and horizontal articulations. The eastern faceted has horizontal and
vertical articulations over approximately 75% of the façade as calculated by staff. On the
western façade the only horizontal articulation is at the loading dock on the southern end
and the total amount of vertical and horizontal articulations cover only about 48% of the
façade as calculated by staff. Approval of a deviation from vertical and horizontal variation
from the Planning Commission would be required for the western elevation of the
architectural plans as proposed.

The front entrance does provide a significant horizontal variation at least twenty feet (20’)
wide and five feet (5’) deep that complies with the requirements of DCMC Subsection 9-22-
040(C)(2) for the eastern façade. The loading docks on the southwest corner of the building
provide a significant horizontal variation in excess of five feet (5’) deep and twenty feet (20’
wide) for both the southern and western facades. Horizontal variations on the northern
and facade exist around the windows but are undersized at only sixteen feet (16’) wide and
three and one-half feet (3-1/2’) deep and do not meet the minimum size requirements of
DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(2) and as proposed would require approval by the Planning
Commission of a deviation from significant horizontal variation for the northern façade.

The applicant is also requesting a deviation from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(5) with respects
to the required variation in materials utilized along the base of the tilt up concrete (Exhibit
L) preferring to instead provide a distinctive change in color at the base rather than face
portions of the concrete panel base with a different exterior material.

    9-22-040: Building Design
    F. Materials: Quality long lasting materials shall be required for all buildings in order to
    contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence in design and
    construction will add to the overall value and sustainability of the community.
    1. Minimum Colors: A minimum of three (3) colors per elevation shall be required.
    2. Color Utilization: Color utilization should be sensitive to existing development within the
    vicinity and the natural landscape in which the project is situated.
    3. Primary Materials: Brick, stone, ceramic tile, wood or concrete fiber composite siding,
    concrete masonry units (CMU), metal composite material, and architectural precast concrete
    are acceptable primary materials. CMU must be colored and feature decorative or
    architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset or split face. Gray CMU block is not an
    acceptable finished building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building
    elevation with the exception of minimal foundation exposure. The following guidelines shall
    apply when designing a commercial or industrial building:



Summit Commerce Center                                                 App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     5
    a. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) primary materials. At least seventy
    five percent (75%) of each building's finished face shall be in primary materials.
    b. When brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized up to one hundred percent
    (100%) of the facade material, in which case, no secondary primary material will be required.
    c. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the calculations of primary
    and secondary materials.
    4. Secondary Materials: Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty
    finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete; vinyl; shake shingles or
    wood siding. Materials such as awnings, wood timbers and other similar features will be
    considered accent and not figured into the totals of secondary materials.
    5. Tilt-Up Concrete: Exposed tilt-up concrete may be used as a primary material on
    buildings located in all manufacturing zones and in the CBP zoning classification. Some
    variation in materials along the base and near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required.

Architectural materials requirements of DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F)(3) require that a
minimum of 75% of the exterior finish of each building face (excluding doors and windows)
consist of primary materials, and that a minimum of 2 primary materials be utilized. The
applicants plans indicate that all four façades are comprised 100% of primary materials
consisting of tilt up concrete, stone veneer, and architectural Composite metal. Under
DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F)(5) exposed tile-up concrete is a permitted primary material in
the M1 manufacturing zone, however some variation in materials along the base and near
the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required. The plans as proposed provide variations in
materials near the main entrance, but no variations are proposed in materials near any
other doors or along the base. The applicant is proposing in lieu of a change in base
materials as required by ordinance that a change in the paint color along the base of the
western façade of the structure be accepted. Areas utilizing stone veneer as a finish
material on the north, east and south façades include areas of the base, but are not around
doorways. Approval of a deviation from strict compliance with DCMC Subsection 9-22-
040(F)(3) from the Planning Commission would be required for the exterior finishes as
proposed on the elevation plans (exhibit G).

Per the elevation drawings (Exhibit G) the main entryway is forty-five feet ten inches (45’
10”) in height. This violates the maximum height limit in the zone of forty-five (45’).
Recommendation of approval for the Site Plan Amendment is conditioned upon a specific
condition that the height of the feature be reduced by ten inches (10”) to comply with the
ordinance requirements of the M1 zone.

Architectural Design Standards Modification. Chapter 22 of the DCMC makes provisions for
the Planning Commission to authorize deviations to strict compliance with the terms of the
Code regarding development design standards. DCMC Section 9-22-030 states that the
Planning Commission may approve site plans that deviate from the requirements of the
design standards within Chapter 22 of the DCMC based on making certain required




Summit Commerce Center                                                 App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     6
findings in whole. Per DCMC Section 9-22-030(B), the Planning Commission shall find an
application complies with at least three of the following criteria:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
            excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The overall percentage of dedicated public or private landscape and open space
            area exceeds the required amount by more than ten percent (10%).
        3. The project is a transit oriented development (TOD) and provides connectivity to
            a transportation facility.
        4. Traffic impacts on the neighborhood are lessened through programs, such as
            creative design, traffic calming measures, companywide carpool or transit pass
            programs.
        5. The project is an accredited LEED development.
        6. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
            master plan or ordinance.
        7. The project is required to create a consistent and compatible design in cases
            which involve redeveloped buildings, additions to existing buildings, minor
            structures added to a site, or new buildings within a previously approved phased
            project.
        8. Additional landscape plant material is provided in an amount at least ten
            percent (10%) more than the minimum required, including additional planting
            beds, plants, trees or a combination thereof.
        9. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as contemporary or
            modern, which utilizes facade materials differently then prescribed in
            subsection 9-22-040(F) of this chapter and is designed by a licensed architect.
        10. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
            greater than the minimum required amount.

The applicant’s request for building design deviations from DCMC Chapter 9-22 is included
as Exhibit L in this report. Specifically the applicant mentions criteria 1, 6, 9 and 10 as being
applicable to their request. In the staff review it has been determined that the plan to add
two (2) bike racks (each with three (3) bike stalls) and pedestrian level amenities such
benches near the entrance could be considered as providing additional amenities in excess
of minimum requirements for the building. A picnic table is provided on the south however
it is not located in a convenient or desirable location for employees or customers as it is on
the concrete walkway near the loading docks and is not near a main entrance to the
building (despite an erroneous note on the plans depicting a non-existent employee
entrance in the location of a window). Staff believes that criterion 6 is met with respects to
the design as proposed as the purpose of the design standards chapter is to facilitate
exceptional design in the built environment and preserve the quality of life within Draper
City, and requiring strict compliance with horizontal and vertical articulation standards
would be of little to no benefit to the aesthetics of the site. Vertical articulations are
included at the roofline and horizontal articulation is occurring around the windows which



Summit Commerce Center                                                App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     7
meet the intent of design criteria to provide variety, even if they do not strictly comply with
the maximum dimensions required of articulations. Tilt up concrete buildings are a specific
architectural style and use materials differently than other architectural styles, but the
materials are not being used in a different manner than specified in DCMC Chapter 9-22
other than as proposed they are non-compliance with the requirement for a material
variation around the base of the walls and around doors. Accordingly staff is not of the
opinion that criterion 9 has been met. Criterion 10 for consideration of a deviation is met in
that the amount of primary materials utilized on the all façades exceeds the minimum
required amount of 75% by more than 10%.

Circulation. The site plan (Exhibit E) provides adequate traffic circulation for both passenger
vehicles and for the separation of traffic from large freight vehicles making deliveries to the
industrial building being constructed on site as well as for deliveries being made to the new
proposed commercial building. Adequate emergency access to all sides of the building is
also provided. Passenger vehicle parking is visually and physically separated from the main
internal thoroughfares through the use of landscaping and landscaping islands. Pedestrian
access is contemplated to come from Pony Express Road in front of the main entry and a
sidewalk and pathway between the street and the front entry is provided on the site plan.
However, due to the change in the proposed plans to not install roadway improvements
along Pony Express Road at this time, this pedestrian access no longer connects to the right
of way. Staff suggests that as the pedestrian connection for the other building on site
comes from Golden Harvest Road to the north that a condition of approval be included
that a secondary minimum five foot (5’) wide ADA assessable pedestrian sidewalk and
access be added between Golden Harvest Road and the concrete walkway abutting the
north of the proposed building. The secondary sidewalk location would immediately abut
the east side of the vehicular entryway directly northwest of the proposed commercial
building, necessary adjustments to the design of the detention pond to accommodate the
lost volume, and landscaping design.

A Traffic Impact Study was conducted for the site with the initial site plan application and
the results of that study are attached (Exhibit J). No updates to the traffic study were
provided with this amended application. A notable difference between the original traffic
study and the proposed commercial building is the 25,261 ft² increase in the size of the
proposed building. As the City Engineer has provided no comments on this change, staff
recommends that as a condition of approval that an updated traffic study be provided to
the City Engineer for their review and acceptance and that site construction, including any
off-site improvements, comply with any changes required by the revised report (if any).

Landscaping and Lot Coverage. The landscaping plans (Exhibit F) have been reviewed and
have been determined to be in compliance with minimum ordinance requirements,
pending acceptance of the proposed relocation of the ditch by the City Engineer. Currently
the proposed plans indicate that approximately 21% of the overall site will be landscaped.
The proposed plans meet the requirements for perimeter landscaping as well as for the



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    8
screening of loading, mechanical, service, and parking areas. Parking areas for commercial
uses are required to contain a minimum of 7% landscaped area, the proposed plans
include 9 foot wide landscape rows between rows of head to head parking and an overall
landscaping amount within the parking area of 9%.

Along the southeast property boundary adjacent to the RA1 zoned area, the applicant was
previously approved for a land use buffer reduction from thirty feet (30’) to fifteen feet (15’)
and will also be constructing an eight foot (8’) tall steel reinforced polyethylene screening
fence as required. Changes to that entryway area are not part of this proposed
amendment.

Parking. According to the site plan (Exhibit E), the overall site will now provide 598 parking
stalls. This represents more stalls than are required given the proposed building uses, but
is within the 10% natural adjustment range allowed in ordinance. An additional 18
dedicated spaces for semi-trailer parking remain as part of the originally approved site
plan, though they are not required by ordinance. There may be some future fluctuation
between the usage types and amounts between both buildings on site. Future uses within
the buildings will also be evaluated at the time of a building permit for tenant
improvements and/ or the business license application to ensure that the necessary
parking for uses as proposed remains available.

Lighting. The lighting plan (Exhibit I) has been found to comply with the intent of ordinance
requirements. Individual areas of the property that will be illuminated have lighting that
complies with maximum and average illumination rates. Due to a large portions of the site
being unilluminated, the calculation of the overall ratio between maximum and average
illumination unintentionally becomes skewed. Adding unnecessary lighting to these areas is
contrary to the intent of the ordinance. Lighting directed upwards at the entryway of the
building will comply with ordinance requirements and will not exceed the maximum
illumination amount of 0.1 foot candles at the roofline. Exterior lighting will include an
astronomical clock that will turn off the lights during non-operational hours so as to comply
with the after-hours requirements of ordinance.

Signage. The proposed signage areas as shown on the elevation drawings (Exhibit G) exceed
the maximum allowable signage area for wall signs. Signage locations for the proposed
tower sign and monument sign as shown on the site plan (Exhibit E) are generally
acceptable as long as minimum setbacks for the sign are met, however the preliminary sign
construction details provided to staff for the proposed tower and monument signs show
signs that exceed the size and height requirements of ordinance. Recommendation of
approval for the Site Plan Amendment is conditioned upon providing updated signage
plans at the time of the sign permits that comply with ordinance requirements.

Previous Conditions of Approval. The City Council placed the following comments and
conditions of approval on the Development Agreement on April 7, 2020:



Summit Commerce Center                                                App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    9
        1. Planning Review
              a. The Development Agreement alters the permitted and conditional uses
                  typically granted to the M1 zoning district. Those changes add a higher
                  level of restriction/allowance typically afforded the M1 zone aside from
                  “Retail, general” which it sets as a permitted use rather than the M1
                  standard of conditional use. The changes are consistent with the general
                  area and add a greater level of predictability regarding how it will be used
                  and redeveloped. All other zoning regulations and standards remain
                  consistent with DCMC and the M1 zone.

        2. Engineering/Public Works Review
              a. Traffic Impact Study (TIS) is required for the site.
              b. In the development agreement, section 8, Upsizing/Reimbursements to
                 Master Developer; the city will not pay “in advance” for infrastructure
                 upsizing. The city requires and will execute a mutually acceptable
                 reimbursement agreement prior to the installation of any upsizing, but
                 will not compensate Master Developer until completion and acceptance
                 of the work for actual upsizing costs.
              c. Proposed site layout / master plan shows several access points onto
                 public right-of-way that do not comply with the city’s access management
                 requirements. Engineering has provided some redline comments on a
                 proposed site layout for your consideration.
              d. Existing drinking water infrastructure surrounding the proposed site may
                 need to be upsized depending on an analysis of the proposed
                 development demands. For example, the drinking waterline diameter in
                 portions of Golden Harvest Rd is six inches and would not provide
                 adequate fire flow for some M1 uses.

        3. Fire Review
               a. The Draper City Fire Department has reviewed the proposed Master
                  Development Agreement and at this time has no concerns. A more in
                  depth review will be done during the site plan and building permit
                  phases.

        4. Legal Review
              a. The request complies with federal and state laws and Draper City
                  ordinances.

The Planning Commission placed the following comments and conditions of approval on
the Site Plan approval on July 8, 2021:

        1. That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,



Summit Commerce Center                                              App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   10
             Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the site
             and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.   That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
             development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
        3.   That the building and site be constructed in substantial compliance with the
             plans submitted and approved as part of this amended site plan review, and in
             accordance with any approved deviations from standards.
        4.   Revised plans be submitted addressing to the satisfaction of the City Engineer,
             the outstanding comments and redlines provided by the City Engineer.
        5.   That no signage is approved with the site plan. All signage is required to meet
             the requirements of Chapter 9-26 and obtain applicable sign permits through
             the appropriate City process.




Criteria For Approval. The criteria for review and potential approval of a Site Plan request is
found in Sections 9-5-090(E) of the DCMC. This section depicts the standard of review for
such requests as:

        E. Standards For Approval: The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site
            plan:
            1. The entire site shall be developed at one time unless a phased development plan is
               approved.
            2. A site plan shall conform to applicable standards set forth in this title, including but
               not limited to, building heights, setbacks, access points, parking, landscaping, and
               building materials.
            3. The proposed development plans meet the intent, goals, and objectives of the
               general plan and the purpose of the zone district in which the site is located.
            4. The public facilities and services in the area are adequate to support the subject
               development, as required by engineering standards and specifications.
            5. The proposed development plans comply with the engineering standards found in
               Titles 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, and 18 of this code, including traffic, storm water drainage,
               and utilities concerns.

REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Site Plan submission. Comments from
these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.




Summit Commerce Center                                                     App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                       11
Building Division Review. The Draper City Building Division has completed their review of the
Site Plan submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review. Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC and Simon
Associates LLC., in working with the Draper City Building and Engineering Divisions, have
completed their reviews of the geotechnical and geologic hazards report submitted as a
part of the Site Plan. Comments from Taylor Geo-Engineering, LLC, if any, can be found in
Exhibit A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed his review of the Site Plan
submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends the Planning Commission review the request, receive public comment,
and conditionally approve the application subject to the applicant complying with the
specific and general conditions of approval. Approval is based on the findings listed below
and the criteria for approval as listed within the staff report. Staff further recommends
requiring the completion of the Specific Conditions of Approval (listed as items 1 through 4
below) before the Site Plan Amendment approval becomes effective. The Site Plan
Amendment shall not be considered approved until these four (4) conditions are met and
the Zoning Administrator has issued a notice of Site Plan Amendment approval. The
effective date of the Site Plan Amendment approval shall be the date on the Zoning
Administrator’s notice of Site Plan Amendment approval.

    A. Specific Conditions of Approval

        1.       The Site Plan Amendment will not be considered approved until the specific
                 conditions of approval are met and the Zoning Administrator has issued a
                 notice of Site Plan Amendment approval.
        2.       Submit revised plans addressing to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, the
                 outstanding comments and redlines that will be provided by the City
                 Engineer.
        3.       Submit revised civil and architectural plans addressing redlines and
                 comments provided by the Planning and Zoning Division.
        4.       Submit revised elevation drawings showing a 10” reduction in the height of



Summit Commerce Center                                                App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                     12
                 the main entry feature and parapet walls to comply with the maximum forty-
                 five foot (45’) height of the M1 zone.
        5.       Submit revised plans showing the secondary pedestrian access connecting to
                 Golden Harvest Road as described in the staff report.



    B. General Conditions of Approval

        1.       That all requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
                 Planning, and Fire Divisions are satisfied throughout the development of the
                 site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.
        2.       That all requirements of the geotechnical report are satisfied throughout the
                 development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.
        3.       That the building and site be constructed in substantial compliance with the
                 plans submitted and approved as part of this amended site plan review, and
                 in accordance with any approved deviations from standards.
        4.       That no signage is approved with the site plan. All signage is required to
                 meet the requirements of Chapter 9-26 and obtain applicable sign permits
                 through the appropriate City process.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) – Horizontal and Vertical
Façade Articulation.
The findings for approval of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for horizontal or vertical façade
variations every thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal
length of building along its face is as follows:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
           master plan or ordinance.
        3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(1) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for horizontal or vertical façade
variations every thirty feet (30') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the horizontal
length of building along its face is as follows:

        1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
           in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.



Summit Commerce Center                                               App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    13
Deviation Request from DCMC Subsections 9-22-040(C)(2) – Significant Horizontal
Façade Articulation
The findings for approval of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(2) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face is as follows:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
           master plan or ordinance.
        3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of a deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(C)(2) to allow for a
building that does not comply with the requirements for a minimum horizontal façade
variation of five feet (5’) by twenty feet (20’) and which has segments of uninterrupted
façade greater than one-hundred feet (100’) in length along its face is as follows:

        1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
           in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.

Deviation Request from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D)(2) – Roofline and Parapet
Variations
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D) Height and
Roofline to allow for a building that does not strictly comply with the requirements for
roofline and parapet variations is as follows:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
           master plan or ordinance.
        3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(D) Height and
Roofline to allow for a building that does not strictly comply with the requirements for
roofline and parapet variations is as follows:




Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                  14
        1. The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
           in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
           applicable master plan or ordinance.



Deviation Request from DCMC Section 9-22-040(F)(5) – Materials
The findings for approval of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) Materials to
allow for a building that does not comply with the requirement for a variation in materials
at the base of tilt up panels is as follows:

        1. The project contains amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity in
           excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
        2. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any applicable
           master plan or ordinance.
        3. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten percent (10%)
           greater than the minimum required amount.

The findings for denial of the deviation from DCMC Subsection 9-22-040(F) Materials for a
building that does not comply with the requirement for a variation in materials at the base
of tilt up panels is as follows:

       1.   The project does not contain amenities such as pedestrian and bike connectivity
            in excess of what is required in the development code and site plan review.
       2.   The variations are not consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
            applicable master plan or ordinance.

Site Plan
The findings for approval of the site plan are as follows:

        1. The applicant acknowledges it has not met the specific conditions of approval.
        2. The application will meet the requirements and provisions of the Draper City
           Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E), once the specific conditions of
           approval have been met.
        3. The Planning Commission has agreed to approve the application with conditions
           (as outlined above) subject to the applicant complying with the specific
           conditions of approval.
        4. The final effective date of the Planning Commission’s Site Plan Amendment
           approval will be when the Zoning Administrator confirms the applicant has
           complied with the specific conditions of approval.
        5. The applicant will comply with the general conditions of approval throughout the
           construction of the project.




Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   15
The findings for denial of the site plan are as follows:

        1. The proposed site plan does not requirements and provisions of the Draper City
           Municipal Code, including Section 9-5-090(E).



MODEL MOTIONS

Deviation from Horizontal and Vertical Façade Articulation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from
horizontal and vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing
ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
horizontal and vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing
ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from horizontal and
vertical façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment , application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report
dated September 30, 2021.

Deviation from Significant Horizontal Façade Articulation
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from
significant horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
significant horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:



Summit Commerce Center                                           App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                    16
        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from significant
horizontal façade articulation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Deviation from Roofline and Parapet Variations
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation request from roofline
and parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and subject to the
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation request from
roofline and parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO
Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce
Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and
subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021and as
modified by the findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation request from roofline and
parapet variations, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report
dated September 30, 2021.

Deviation from Materials
Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we approve the deviation from materials
variation, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC
and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment,
application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the
Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we approve the deviation from
materials variation, as requested by Mark McKee, as representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0128-2021, based on the findings and subject to the




Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   17
conditions listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021and as modified by the
findings and conditions below:

        1. List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the deviation from materials variation, as
requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter
Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-
0128-2021, based on the findings listed in the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.

Site Plan
Sample Motion for Approval –
I move that we conditionally approve the Site Plan Amendment based on the findings and
subject to the specific and general conditions listed within the Staff Report dated
September 30, 2021, as requested by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build
Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan
Amendment, application SPR-0014-2021. The Site Plan Amendment approval shall become
effective upon a written notice from the Zoning Administrator that the specific conditions
of approval have been met. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to determine
if the specific conditions of approval have been met and issue final notice of approval. If
the conditions are not met, the Site Plan Amendment shall not be deemed approved and
any changes to the Site Plan Amendment must be brought back to the Planning
Commission for additional review and approval.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval–
I move that we conditionally approve the Site Plan Amendment based on the findings and
subject to the specific and general conditions listed within the Staff Report dated
September 30, 2021, and as modified by the findings and conditions below, as requested
by Mark McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land,
LLC for the Summit Commerce Center Site Plan Amendment, application SPR-0014-2021.
The Site Plan Amendment approval shall become effective upon a written notice from the
Zoning Administrator that the specific conditions of approval have been met. The Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to determine if the specific conditions of approval
have been met and issue final notice of approval. If the conditions are not met, the Site
Plan Amendment shall not be deemed approved and any changes to the Site Plan
Amendment must be brought back to the Planning Commission for additional review and
approval

        1. List any additional findings and specific conditions…
        2. List any additional findings and general conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we deny the Site Plan, as requested by Mark
McKee, representing ARCO Design/Build Southwest, LLC and Exeter Draper Land, LLC for



Summit Commerce Center                                             App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                   18
the Summit Commerce Center, application SPR-0014-2021, based on the findings listed in
the Staff Report dated September 30, 2021.




Summit Commerce Center                                          App. # SPR-0128-2021
Site Plan Amendment Request                19
                                       EXHIBIT A
                                  DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.      Additional redlines will be provided directly to the applicant and will be
               available upon request at the Planning Commission meeting.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided. Additional comments may be provided at
               the Planning Commission Meeting.

Building Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

Geotechnical and Geologic Hazards Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided.

GIS Division Review.

       1.      No additional comments provided

Fire Division Review.

       1.      Fire Department Access is required. An unobstructed minimum road width of
               twenty-six (26) feet exclusive of the shoulders and a minimum height of
               thirteen (13) feet six (6) inches shall be required. The road must be, designed
               and maintained to support the imposed loads of emergency apparatus. The
               surface shall be able to provide all weather driving capabilities. The road shall
               have an inside turning radius of twenty – eight (28) feet. There shall be a
               maximum grade of 10%. Grades may be, checked prior to building permits
               being issued.

       2.      Hydrants and Site Access. All hydrants and a form of acceptable temporary
               Fire Department Access to the site shall be, installed and APPROVED by the
               Fire Department prior to the issuance of any Building Permits. If at any time
     during the building phase any of the hydrants or temporary Fire Department
     Access becomes non-compliant any and all permits could be revoked.

3.   Hydrants Required. Building 1 is shown at 125,700 square feet and there are
     no architectural drawings to show the type of construction the building will
     be. So the following was based on a type IIB building. Fire Flow will be
     7500gpm but reduced by 50% for fire sprinklers to a fire flow of 3750gpm.
     With the reduction this building will require four (4) fire hydrants there are
     only two shown.

4.   No combustible construction shall be, allowed prior to hydrant installation
     and testing by water purveyor. All hydrants must be operational prior to any
     combustible elements being received or delivered on building site.

5.   Fire Sprinklers Required. A deferred submittal for a NFPA 13 fire sprinkler
     shop drawings are to be sent via email to: Don Buckley at
     don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
     cut sheets, and hydraulic calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET
     level III or better in Auto Sprinkler Layout. (There needs to be a hydrant with-
     in a 100 feet of the FDC.) FDC is required to have KNOX Locking Caps. ALL
     FIRE PROTECTION PLANS REQUIRE 3rd PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE
     SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

6.   Fire Alarm Required. A deferred submittal for fire alarm shop drawings are to
     be sent via email to the following to: Don Buckley at
     don.buckley@draperutah.gov . A complete set of plans, with manufacturer
     cut sheets, and battery calculations. Plans must be stamped by a NICET level
     III or better in Fire Alarm Systems. ALL FIRE ALARM PLANS REQUIRE 3rd
     PARTY REVIEW PRIOR TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE DRAPER FIRE DEPARTMENT.

7.   Knox Boxes Required. Fire Department “Knox Brand” lock box to be mounted
     to exterior walls, near the main entrance and/or nearest the door serving the
     exterior access to the fire sprinkler riser room. (At a height of 5 feet to the
     top of the box) Lock box purchase can be arranged by the General
     Contractor. See attached information form.

8.   Visible Addressing Required. New and existing buildings shall have approved
     address numbers plainly legible and visible from the street fronting the
     property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.

9.   Street Signs required and are to be posted and legible prior to building
     permits being, issued. All lots to have lot number or address posted and
     legible.
 EXHIBIT B
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT C
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT D
ZONING MAP
       EXHIBIT E
SITE PLAN AND DETAILS
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                        Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                        Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                   Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:




                                                                                                                9/10/2021




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016SP                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                          Overall Site Plan
                                       ∆
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C1.0
                                                                                              09 September, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
                                                          ∆
                                                                                      DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                  C




                                                                                      PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                   SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                            Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                            Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                       Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                  B


                                                                                      SEAL:


                                                                                                                               FESS ION
                                                                                                                            PRO        AL
                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                 RE                                   E




                                                                                                          TE




                                                                                                                                                      NG
                                                                                                                    9/10/2021




                                                                                                        IS




                                                                                                                                                         INE
                                                                                                    REG




                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                              TA




                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                         T            A
                                                                                                                        TE
                                                                                                                                    OF U




                                                                                      SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                       NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                               11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                        1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                        2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                        3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                        4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                        5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                      PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                      20-016SP                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                      SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                  A
                                                                                         Building 2 Site Plan
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                      These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                      registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                      reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                      SHEET NO.:




                                                                                              C1.1
                                                                                                  09 September, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO       5   4   3   2   1
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                        Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                        Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                   Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:


                                                                                                                           FESS ION
                                                                                                                        PRO        AL
                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                             RE                                   E




                                                                                                      TE




                                                                                                                                                   NG
                                                                                                                9/10/2021




                                                                                                    IS




                                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                                      NE
                                                                                                REG




                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                           TA




                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                     T            A
                                                                                                                   TE
                                                                                                                                OF U




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016SP                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                     Building 1 Site Plan
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C1.2
                                                                                              09 September, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                        Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                        Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                   Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:


                                                                                                                           FESS ION
                                                                                                                        PRO        AL
                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                             RE                                   E




                                                                                                      TE




                                                                                                                                                  NG
                                                                                                                9/10/2021




                                                                                                    IS




                                                                                                                                                     INE
                                                                                                REG




                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                          TA




                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                     T            A
                                                                                                                    TE
                                                                                                                                OF U




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016DT                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                                        Details
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C4.3
                                                                                              09 September, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
                                                                                  DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                              C




                                                                                  PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                        Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                        Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                   Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                              B


                                                                                  SEAL:


                                                                                                                           FESS ION
                                                                                                                        PRO        AL
                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                             RE                                   E




                                                                                                      TE




                                                                                                                                                  NG
                                                                                                                9/10/2021




                                                                                                    IS




                                                                                                                                                     INE
                                                                                                REG




                                                                                                                                                        ER
                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                          TA




                                                                                                     S
                                                                                                                                     T            A
                                                                                                                    TE
                                                                                                                                OF U




                                                                                  SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                   NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                           11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                    1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                    5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions




                                                                                  PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                  20-016DT                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                  SHEET TITLE:

                                                                              A
                                                                                                        Details
Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                  These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                  registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                  reproduced or used without his written permission.

                                                                                  SHEET NO.:




                                                                                          C4.5
                                                                                              09 September, 2021
                                 COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
   EXHIBIT F
LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:17:24 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Overall Landscape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Plan
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                             R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:18:51 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Building 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                             R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:19:36 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Building 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                             R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:20:59 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Building 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                             R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:22:24 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Building 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Landscape Plan
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                             R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                Call before you dig.                    L1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DESIGNER / BUILDER:




                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT TITLE:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMIT COMMERCE CENTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #1: 13004 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bldg #2: 13012 South Pony Express Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Draper, Utah 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                           B


                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEAL:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          09/09/2021



                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUBMITTALS / REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                NO.       DATE                                         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11/12/2020                                    Issued for Permit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1      04/21/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2      06/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3      07/14/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4      07/30/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5      09/09/2021                                  Site Permit Revisions
W:\20-016 ArcoExeter\dwgs\Building 1 and 2 Combined Dwgs\20-016LS.dwg, 9/10/2021 12:23:07 PM, 1:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT NO.:                                                     DESIGNED BY: CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               20-016LS                                                                  DRAWN BY: JG

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET TITLE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Building 1 & 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Landscape Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        and Details
                                                                                                    Printed: 2/20/2020 12:27:49 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                               These plans drawings are the property of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                               registered architect and may not be copied,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               reproduced or used without his written permission.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 R

                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHEET NO.:




                                                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                    Call before you dig.                L1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           09 September, 2021
                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2019: ARCO   5   4   3   2   1
         EXHIBIT G
ELEVATIONS AND RENDERINGS
                                                                     1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                     3                                                                                                                                         2                                                                                       1
                                                   1             A311-S                                       2                                                    3                                          4                                             5                                         A301-S            6                                                        7        A310-S                                                     8                                                                9                A310-S                                                  10                             A310-S                           11
                                                                                                           120' - 0"                                                                   50' - 0"                                  60' - 0"                                         60' - 0"                                                         60' - 0"                                                    50' - 0"                                                     50' - 0"                                                                        60' - 0"                                                       60' - 0"


                                       2' - 6"                       40' - 0"                              40' - 0"                 20' - 0"                       45' - 0"                                       65' - 0"                              40' - 0"                                                80' - 0"                                                               45' - 0"                                                   50' - 0"                                                       45' - 0"                                               40' - 0"                                      59' - 2 1/2"                                    3' - 3 1/2"

                                                       VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                       VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                               VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                             VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                         VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                            VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                            WALL PACK,                                           32' - 8"                                        33' - 8"    WHITE TPO ROOF,                                                                  33' - 8"                                                                                                              RTU PAINTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              32' - 8"              33' - 8"               PT3              PT2          PT1
                                                                              TYPICAL                                                                                                                TYPICAL                                                                                                                                                                                       WHITE, TYPICAL                                                                                                                                        33' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              28' - 8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10' - 0" TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9' - 0" TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TYP.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14501 E. Artesia Blvd.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6"
                                                                                                                                                                                              KNOCK OUT FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 La Mirada, California 90638
                                                                                                                                                                                               FUTURE DOCK,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYPICAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p. 877.266.7300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4          WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL WEST SF                                                                                     21,525 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A200-S          SCALE: 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                         120 SF
                                          WEST ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                            21,645 SF

                                          BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):                                                                                                                                                                                  PAINTED TILT (21,225 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                             99%
                                                                                                                                                                PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 8'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5424 KATY FREEWAY, STE 200
                                          620' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                           100%                                                                                                                                        ARCHITECTURAL COMPOSITE METAL (300 SF)                                                                   1%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HOUSTON, TX 77007
                                          345' OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                              56%                                   SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE                                          TOTAL                                                                                                  100%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O: 470.858.8900


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF FUTURE TENANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED. (5' x 62')


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A                              A.5                               B                                       B.5                      C                                                              D                                                              E                                                    F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30' - 0"                        30' - 0"                           30' - 0"                           20' - 0"                                                                   100' - 0"                                                                              50' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   110' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                        62' - 0" VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RTU PAINTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERTICAL FACADE VARIATIONS                                                                                                              WHITE, TYPICAL                                                                                                                                                          45' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35' - 9"                                                                                                                      39' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3                                      2                 WHITE TPO                                                             ST1                                                              PT1     PT3                                   PT3              ST1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4                                                                                        ROOF, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 33' - 8"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A310-S                            A315-S                                 A315-S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LINE OF ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BEYOND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8' - 0" TYP.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WALL PACK,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9/14/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYPICAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21' - 0" TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN FACADE SUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHADE CANOPY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        15' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RETAINING WALL, RE: 1/401-S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SEE CIVIL AND STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER - BUILDING 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16' - 0"                           20' - 0"                  30' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUMMIT COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TYP.                                                                     2' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):                                                                                                                                    PORTAL TO HAVE ACCENT LIGHTING FOR EDGE-                                                                                   SUN SHADE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13004 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIT EFFECT, TYPICAL                                                                                                    CANOPY, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL WEST SF                                                                                       8,250 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                 1,545 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                              9,795 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3          SOUTH ELEVATION
                                           SOUTH ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                                              PAINTED TILT (5,345 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                              64%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A200-S          SCALE: 1" = 20'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STONE VENEER (2,775 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                              34%
                                           BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCHITECTURAL COMPOSITE METAL (130 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                2%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAPER, UT 84020
                                           272' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                          100%                                     PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 8'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                                         TOTAL                                                                                                  100%
                                           172' OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                             63%                                    SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE



    APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF ADDRESS                                                                 APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF FUTURE TENANT                                                                  APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF FUTURE                                                               APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF FUTURE TENANT
      SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED. (2' x 8')                                                             SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED. (6' x 17')                                                       TENANT SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED. (8' x 100')                                            SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED. (9' x 9' EA.)


                                                         11                                                        10                                                    9                                         8                                    7                                                      6                                                                   5                                                                         4                                                               3                                                                          2                                                              1
                                                                                   60' - 0"                                                 60' - 0"                                         50' - 0"                               50' - 0"                                  60' - 0"                                                       60' - 0"                                                             60' - 0"                                                        50' - 0"                                                                                                       120' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN FACADE SUN                                                                                                                                                          44' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 84' - 6" VERTICAL FACADE VARIATIONS
                                             2' - 6"                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHADE CANOPY                                                                                                                                   VERTICAL FACADE VARIATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2' - 6"
                                                                                                89' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1                               2                                                           1                            2                                          1
                                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                                                      1                    A301-S                         A313-S                                      A313-S                                                 3                                                                                                                                           2                1                     4
                                                                                 VERTICAL FACADE VARIATIONS                                            A402-S                                                                A315-S                         A314-S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A314-S                                                                                                                                               A312-S                                                                                                                                      A312-S             A312-S              A311-S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             45' - 10"
                                                                                 ST1    RTU PAINTED                                                                                         WHITE TPO ROOF,                              ST1                                                                                             ST1                               PT3                                                           PT3                                                                         PT1                                                                                              36' - 10"                           ST1                    39' - 10"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40' - 10"                                                                    25' - 0"                  39' - 10"
                                                              39' - 10"                WHITE, TYPICAL                    36' - 7 1/2"          39' - 10"                                            TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50' - 0"                      2' - 6"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUN SHADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CANOPY, TYPICAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8' - 0" TYP.

                                       21' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EQ.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"


                                                                      30' - 0"                20' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                     22' - 8"          13' - 6"2 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9' - 3 1/2"      23' - 0"                     23' - 0"         11' - 7"                                                                                                                      16' - 0"                                                                                                         20' - 0"                       30' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WALL SCONCES                                                                          TYP.                                                                                                         MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1
                                                                          PORTAL TO HAVE ACCENT LIGHTING FOR EDGE-                                                            PORTAL TO HAVE ACCENT LIGHTING FOR EDGE-LIT EFFECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0' - 0"
                                                                                                 LIT EFFECT, TYPICAL                                                                        INDIVIDUAL DOWNLIGHTS UNDER CANOPY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Description
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):
                                                                                                    BOLLARD LIGHT, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL WEST SF                                                                                     20,300 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                4,180 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                            24,480 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2          EAST ELEVATION
                                            EAST ELEVATION CALCULATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAINTED TILT (11,225 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                             55%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A200-S          SCALE: 1" = 20'-0"
                                            BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):                                                                                                                                                                                 STONE VENEER (8,455 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                              42%
                                            575'-8" LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE                                      100%                                     PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 8'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO                                          ARCHITECTURAL COMPOSITE METAL (620 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)                                                3%
                                            356'-10" OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                        62%                                    SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE                                          TOTAL                                                                                                   100%                                                                  FUTURE TENANT SIGNAGE LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIGNAGE TO BE PERMITTED SEPARATELY. (5' x 62')


PAINT SCHEDULE - DCMC 9-22-040(F)(6) (THREE COLORS PROVIDED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F                                                        E                                                            D                                                                C                   B.5                                          B                          A.5                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      50' - 0"                                               50' - 0"                                                  50' - 0"                                             20' - 0"                           30' - 0"                        30' - 0"                      30' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50% PROGRESS SET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        75% PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90% PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY SITE REVIEW



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CITY COMMENTS
PAINT FINISHES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIM.                              SIM.                         192' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4                                   1                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RTU PAINTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2' - 6"                                                                       VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION                                                                                                                                                                           WHITE, TYPICAL                                              WHITE TPO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A311-S                            A313-S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SIM.                                                                                                                                   ROOF, TYPICAL
    PT1                      PT2                               PT3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                              3                2                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST1      PT3                         PT1      PT3            ST1                                                                                                                                  35' - 9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              39' - 10"                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A315-S                                                                       A311-S             A311-S              A310-S              33' - 8"
REPROSE GRAY          GAUNTLEY GRAY                     BLACK FOX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Date
    SW 7015               SW7019                         SW7020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B.O. DECKING VARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LINE OF ROOF
(FIELD COLOR)      (GRAY ACCENT COLOR)            (BLACK ACCENT COLOR)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEYOND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7/13/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7/16/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8/13/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8' - 0" TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6/4/2021




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9/8/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALL PACK,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TYPICAL
             STONE (ST1)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21' - 0"
                                          COORDINATING METAL GRAVEL                                             ACM PANELS                             ALUMINUM STOREFRONT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          No.
                                             STOP AT STONE (ST1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MAIN FACADE SUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHADE CANOPY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             It is the clients responsibility prior to or during construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               to notify the architect in writing of any perceived errors or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               omissions in the plans and specifications of which a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1                                 contractor thoroughly knowledgeable with the building
8" CORONADO CLASSIC JERUSALEM ASH           PAC-CLAD KYNAR STANDARD                                        ALPOLIC PEX PEWTER                              BLACK ANODIZED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0' - 0"                               codes and methods of construction should reasonably be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aware. Written instructions addressing such perceived
                                                    "GRANITE"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  errors or omissions shall be received from the architect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               prior to the client or clients subcontractors proceeding with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUN SHADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              the work. The client will be responsible for any defects in
          EXTERIOR GLAZING                  EXTERIOR GLAZING, ACCENT                                       ADDITIONAL FINISHES                                                                                                                                      CANOPY, TYPICAL                                                       30' - 0"                    20' - 0"                                                     16' - 0"                                   APPROXIMATE SIZE AND LOCATION OF FUTURE TENANT                                                                                                                                                                                                   construction if these procedures are not followed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIGNAGE. SEPARATE SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TYP.
                                                                                                           METAL GRAVEL STOP, TYPICAL                                    PAC-CLAD KYNAR, STANDARD FINISH TO
                                                                                                                                                                         MATCH ADJACENT PRIMARY PAINT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PORTAL TO HAVE ACCENT LIGHTING FOR EDGE-                                                                      PROJECT CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                         FINISH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIT EFFECT, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILDING MATERIAL PERCENTAGES PER DCMC 9-22-040(F)(3)&(4):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PRINCIPAL:
                                                                                                           HOLLOW METAL DOORS AND FRAMES                                 TO MATCH ADJACENT WALL
                                                                                                                                                                         COLOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JOB NO.:                                      HD109-21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL WEST SF                                                                                                                   8,435 SF
            SMOKE GRAY                       ITZKO GLASS AND METAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GLASS/ DOORS (NOT INCLUDED IN CALC)                                                                                             1,515 SF
                                   1/4" SOLARBAN REEDED (CUSTOM), #21163581                                METAL DOCK DOORS                                              WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL MATERIAL CALC SF                                                                                                          9,950 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH ELEVATION CALCULATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET
                                                                                                           TPO ROOF                                                      WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BUILDING DESIGN PER DCMC 9-22-040(C)(1):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PAINTED TILT (5,525 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STONE VENEER (2,775 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      32%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1          NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                           NOTE: ALL SELECTIONS ARE APPROVED OR EQUAL                                                                        272' LINEAR FEET OF BUILDING FACADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             180' OF VERTICAL FACADE VARIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 70%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PARAPETS RANGE FROM 2'-0" TO 8'-0" THROUGHOUT BUILIDING TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SCREEN ROOF TOP UNITS. ALL VISABLE RTUs TO BE PAINTED WHITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ARCHITECTURAL COMPOSITE METAL(135 SF) (PRIMARY MATERIAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     100%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A200-S          SCALE: 1" = 20'-0"                                                                     A200-S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COPYRIGHT 2021   ©
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3/16" GALVANIZED STEEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 1/4"                                         BENT PLATE, 1'-4" LONG,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTER AT 36" A.F.F.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 3/4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14501 E. Artesia Blvd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          La Mirada, California 90638
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          p. 877.266.7300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5424 KATY FREEWAY, STE 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HOUSTON, TX 77007
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O: 470.858.8900


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENLARGED PLAN DETAIL - DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE GATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               8            LATCH
                                                                                                                                                                                                           A112-S           SCALE: 6" = 1'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3 1/4"   2 3/4"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXTRA HEAVY DUTY                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9/8/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GALVANIZED HINGES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WELDED TO GATE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SLOPE TOP OF TILT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STEEL TUBE - KIND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OUTWARD 1/4" PER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARCHITECTURE METALS #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FOOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 44-2100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTER - BUILDING 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9" X 12" 3/8" GALV. PLATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUMMIT COMMERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SECURE TO CONCRETE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WITH 4 ANCHOR BOLTS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13004 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8" X 6" X 3/8" GALVANIZED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STEEL SUBE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4 1/2"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7" WIDTH TILT WALL WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PT-1 FINISH




                                                                                                                                                                                                               7            ENLARGED PLAN DETAIL - DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                                    7" THICK TILT WALL WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                           A112-S           SCALE: 3" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                            PT-1 FINISH
                                                                                                                                                        6" STEEL TUBE SUPPORT,
                                                                                                                                                        PAINTED, TYPICAL


                                                                                                                                                        PRE FINISHED CORRUGATED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCRETE SLAB,
                                                                                                                                                        METAL PANELS AT GATE, MBCI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEE STRUCTURAL
                                                                                                                                                        PBD PANEL OR EQUAL, TYPICAL.
                                                                                                                                                        PROVIDE GALVANIZED HEAVY-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DUMPSTER AND GENERATOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A112-S                                                                  7" THICK TILT WALL WITH
7" WIDTH TILT WALL WITH PT-1 FINISH                                                                                                                     DUTY HINGES, TYPICAL. FINISH                                                                                                                     PT-1 FINISH                                                                  SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                        COLOR TO MATCH PT-1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                        2" METAL TUBE FRAME, PAINTED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOLLARD, TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                        NAGLED FRAME AND BRACING
                                                                                                                                                        INSIDE PERIMETER TUBE FRAME,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PREMOLDED JOINT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6' - 0"
                                      6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Description
                                                                                                                                                        TYPICAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FILLER
                                                                                                                               A112-S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                                           MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.
                                                                                                                                              0' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                       0' - 0"

                                                                                                                                                        BOLLARD, TYICAL

                                                6   NORTH ELEVATION @ ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                                5            WEST ELEVATION @ ENCLOSURE                                                                                                 2      SECTION AT DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE
                                      A112-S        SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                   A112-S           SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                     A112-S   SCALE: 1 1/2" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A112-S                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5                 A112-S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  90% PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17' - 0"            17' - 0"



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DUMPSTERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EQ.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A112-S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8/13/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A112-S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9/8/2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A112-S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EQ.
                                                               BOLLARD, TYPICAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    No.
                                                        7" WIDTH TILT WALL WITH
                                                                      PT-1 FINISH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GENERATOR WITH                     It is the clients responsibility prior to or during construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCRETE PAD,                      to notify the architect in writing of any perceived errors or




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . 21' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        omissions in the plans and specifications of which a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEE CIVIL                          contractor thoroughly knowledgeable with the building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        codes and methods of construction should reasonably be
                                                                                     6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                         6' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        aware. Written instructions addressing such perceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        errors or omissions shall be received from the architect
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRANSFORMER                        prior to the client or clients subcontractors proceeding with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WITH CONCRETE                      the work. The client will be responsible for any defects in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        construction if these procedures are not followed.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAD, SEE CIVIL
                                                          MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN LEVEL - BUILDING 1.
                                                          0' - 0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1' - 6 1/2"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALIGN EXTENTS OF                 PROJECT CONTACT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENCLOSURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                   7" WIDTH TILT WALL WITH PT-1 FINISH                                                                                                                                                  4                                                                              WITH PARKING                     PRINCIPAL:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A112-S                                                                           CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JOB NO.:                                                     HD109-21


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHEET

                                                                                                 4      EAST ELEVATION @ ENCLOSURE                                                           3       SOUTH ELEVATION @ ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                       1      ENLARGED DUMPSTER ENCLOSURE                                                                                                                               A112-S
                                                                                               A112-S   SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"                                                            A112-S       SCALE: 3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                            A112-S   SCALE: 1 : 180



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COPYRIGHT 2021   ©
                       14501 E. Artesia Blvd.
                       La Mirada, California 90638
                       p. 877.266.7300




                       5424 KATY FREEWAY, STE 200
                       HOUSTON, TX 77007
                       O: 470.858.8900




                                            9/8/2021




                     CENTER - BUILDING 1
                     SUMMIT COMMERCE

                                                                                 13004 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD,
                                                                                         DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                Description
                       RENDERING


                                                              75% PROGRESS SET
                                                              90% PROGRESS SET
                                                              CITY SITE REVIEW



                                                              CITY COMMENTS
                                                Date
                                                              7/13/2021
                                                              7/16/2021
                                                              8/13/2021
                                                              9/8/2021
                                                No.
                                                              2
                                                              3
                                                              5
                                                              6
                     It is the clients responsibility prior to or during construction
                     to notify the architect in writing of any perceived errors or
                     omissions in the plans and specifications of which a
                     contractor thoroughly knowledgeable with the building
                     codes and methods of construction should reasonably be
                     aware. Written instructions addressing such perceived
                     errors or omissions shall be received from the architect
                     prior to the client or clients subcontractors proceeding with
                     the work. The client will be responsible for any defects in
                     construction if these procedures are not followed.



                     PROJECT CONTACT:

                     PRINCIPAL:

                     JOB NO.:                                        HD109-21


                                               SHEET


                                         R100

COPYRIGHT 2021   ©
                                                                                   14501 E. Artesia Blvd.
                                                                                   La Mirada, California 90638
                                                                                   p. 877.266.7300




                                                                                   5424 KATY FREEWAY, STE 200
                                                                                   HOUSTON, TX 77007
                                                                                   O: 470.858.8900




                                                                                                       9/14/2021




                                                                                 CENTER - BUILDING 1
                                                                                 SUMMIT COMMERCE

                                                                                                                                             13004 SOUTH PONY EXPRESS ROAD,
                                                                                                                                                     DRAPER, UT 84020
                                                                                                            Description
                                                                                   RENDERING


                                                                                                                          75% PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                                          90% PROGRESS SET
                                                                                                                          CITY SITE REVIEW



                                                                                                                          CITY COMMENTS
                                                                                                            Date
                                                                                                                          7/13/2021
                                                                                                                          7/16/2021
                                                                                                                          8/13/2021
                                                                                                                          9/8/2021
                                                                                                            No.
EXISTING FENCE TO REMAIN   NEW 8'-0" TALL SCREENING FENCE




                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                          6
                                                                                 It is the clients responsibility prior to or during construction
                                                                                 to notify the architect in writing of any perceived errors or
                                                                                 omissions in the plans and specifications of which a
                                                                                 contractor thoroughly knowledgeable with the building
                                                                                 codes and methods of construction should reasonably be
                                                                                 aware. Written instructions addressing such perceived
                                                                                 errors or omissions shall be received from the architect
                                                                                 prior to the client or clients subcontractors proceeding with
                                                                                 the work. The client will be responsible for any defects in
                                                                                 construction if these procedures are not followed.



                                                                                 PROJECT CONTACT:

                                                                                 PRINCIPAL:

                                                                                 JOB NO.:                                        HD109-21


                                                                                                           SHEET


                                                                                                     R101

                                                            COPYRIGHT 2021   ©
