MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, MAY 4, 2021,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:            Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha
                    Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott
                    Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City
                    Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Christina Oliver,
                    Community Development Director; Laura Oscarson, City
                    Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director; Clint Smith,
                    Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code
       2- 1-040.

Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)

I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the
Draper City Council with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and
safety of those who may be present at the anchor location and hereby authorize the
Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:

   •   Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City
       Council, have all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the
       COVID-19 virus.
   •   While COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations show an encouraging downward
       trend and vaccines are becoming available to a larger segment of the Draper
       population, diligence is required so that there is not a rebound in cases and
       hospitalizations.
   •   It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any
       meeting and to manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply
       with applicable health orders.



Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes – May 4, 2021
      •   COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and
          welfare of Draper City residents and the public in general.
      •   The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public
          may hear, or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to
          participate in public hearings.



Study Session

1.0       Presentation: Historic Preservation Commission Budget – LaRayne Day

1.1       Ms. Day’s microphone was not turned on so her opening comments were
          inaudible. When her microphone was adjusted, she was speaking about the
          cost of plaques of different sizes. She asked Councilmember Vawdrey about
          what size she envisioned.

          Councilmember Vawdrey said that she envisioned plaques the size of those
          already at the park. Ms. Day said that she would work with Parks and
          Recreation on the plaques, but that she had budgeted $5,800 for them.

          Mayor Walker clarified that the plaques discussed were those used to name a
          trail such as the Phebe Brown Trail.

          Ms. Day asked if one was going to be for Phebe and one for Ebenezer.
          Councilmember Vawdrey said that it could be whatever the Historic
          Preservation Commission decided, but there was a possibility for both. She
          understood that there were two different trails.

          Ms. Day continued that in the commission’s last meeting they voted to do a
          national register nomination for the Perry Fitzgerald Log Cabin. When she got
          the bid for this the national register wanted to include the cabin as part of the
          home that was already there. The cost for the national register nomination
          would be $1,500.

          Councilmember Vawdrey interrupted to clarify what the Historic Preservation
          Commission planned for the first item, the trail plaques. She said that the
          plaques would have images of the people the trails were named after, along
          with some information about them. They would not just have the names of
          the trails.

                                                                              Page 2 of 26
      Ms. Day confirmed that was correct and continued going over the
      commission’s proposed budget. She said that she had included $1,500 for the
      walking tour interactive app. She asked if there was someone on staff who
      created apps or interactive materials.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he imagined that creating an interactive
      app would probably require an outside source. Ms. Day asked what they
      would be looking at in terms of cost for something like an interactive app.
      Councilmember F. Lowry said a lot more than $1,500.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, said $10,000. He said that Draper City staff
      could do that, they just had to talk about the details.

      Ms. Day said that they had one person on the commission who was tech-savvy.
      She continued to the next budget item, $500 for administrative costs. After
      asking if there was going to be Draper Days this year and learning that there
      would not be booths, she said that the $450 allocated towards Draper Days
      could be put towards something else. The commission’s last item was $250
      for membership in the National Preservation Society. The total budget was
      ~$10,000.

      Mayor Walker said that he thought the cabin should be on the national
      registrar. Not only was it the oldest building in Draper, but he also suspected
      that it was one of the oldest buildings in the valley.

      Ms. Day said that the cabin probably was one of the first built structures
      because Ebenezer Brown was one of the first people in the valley.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she was excited about the trail panels.
      She said that she thought that as people walked along the Jordan River, they
      would be excited to see some of Draper’s history. She said that she was
      excited about the cabin, too.

      Councilmember F. Lowry thanked Ms. Day for her dedication and help on the
      Historic Preservation Commission.

2.0   Presentation: Draper Chamber of Commerce Budget – Bill Rappleye



                                                                        Page 3 of 26
2.1   Mr. Rappleye, thanked the Mayor and Council for taking the time to meet with
      them. He said that in the previous year the Draper Chamber of Commerce
      had planned 20 events and completed seven of them because of COVID. They
      completed the Business and Employee Relations Training with Chris Redgrave,
      the State of the City Luncheon, the State of the County Luncheon, a Workforce
      Services Luncheon, the annual golf tournament, the annual UTA Luncheon,
      and hosted a national speaker. He said that they spent a good portion of the
      year gathering resources and information to counteract challenges to COVID
      and to share that information with local businesses. In addition, the
      commerce promoted the “Stay Safe, Stay Open” campaign and the “We’re
      Open” banner program. He noted that the Council eliminated the fee for
      hanging banners and Steve Smart printed the banners at no cost. The
      commerce also purchased a Zoom subscription, moved their internet from
      Century Link to Comcast for higher speed internet. Because of this, they would
      be changing their email to Comcast as well. As a result of COVID, the
      commerce also created a daily podcast where they talked with business
      owners. A person was hired to clean up social media content.

**    Councilmember Roberts joined the meeting at 5:49 PM.

      Dennis Garrett, 2021 Board Chair, said that he owned a coffee shop in Draper.
      He said that his shop had to close down because of the pandemic. He said
      that in a traditional year as the board chair he would have hosted a planning
      meeting in November. However, with fewer board members they struggled to
      find events to put on the calendar and execute. The commerce had already
      held three events: The Prospecting Boot Camp in January, the Virtual
      Leadership Institute in February, and a chamber open house in April. There
      were four events scheduled in May. The first event was called “Meet My
      Business”. This was a new event to highlight local Draper businesses and
      provide some behind-the-scenes highlights about what they were about. The
      second event would be a Customer Service Online class. Third, was a Zoom
      meeting called “Meeting the PPP No Pay”. After that would be an event called
      “Get a Health Insurance Check-Up.”

      Mr. Rappleye stated that at the “Get a Health Insurance Check-Up” they would
      be offering vaccines.

      Mr. Garrett continued with the June events. He noted that they would
      continue the “Meet My Business” series, Mayor Walker would provide a Point

                                                                       Page 4 of 26
      Development update, and there would be a seminar on the best practices for
      hiring. In July there were two events planned, another “Meet My Business” and
      then some sort of appearance with Draper Days. August would feature a
      chamber 401K program and a Chamber luncheon. In September they would
      host their annual golf tournament and a luncheon on online marketing. The
      “Meet My Business” series would be continued in October along with the UTA
      Lunch and Learn. The Spirit Awards Gala would be held in November as the
      last event.

      Mr. Garrett continued to talk about the larger initiatives and ongoing
      programs that the chamber was developing. These included things like the
      post-pandemic strategy group and a contract with a custom survey group that
      designed surveys for employers to better get to know their employees. Some
      larger programs in development were some ads on shopping bags. They were
      quite excited about a program focused on helping businesses build their
      brands.

      In addition, the chamber was focused on community outreach. He outlined a
      list of programs and organizations that the chamber was involved in.

      To conclude, Mr. Garrett noted who sponsors the chamber. He pointed out
      that Draper City was part of the top tier at the community leader platinum
      level. He said that executive membership level, Draper City would be noted at
      all of the events as being a sponsor, including being a VIP sponsor for the golf
      tournament, a full sponsor for many of the events, and would have a full table
      paid for as a part of the gala. He continued to talk about the different
      sponsorship levels and what benefits they got for each of their sponsorships.
      He thanked Draper City for the leadership they offered the chamber and the
      opportunity to thrive during the period of the pandemic.

2.2   Mayor Walker asked how much the Chamber was requesting in the budget.

      Mr. Rappleye said that the previous budget was $45,000. He said that similar
      funding would be great. He said that if adjustments were needed, they were
      open to the Council’s ideas.

      Councilmember Roberts asked how the $45,000 was broken down across the
      Chamber’s expenses. Mr. Rappleye said that the funding was mainly used for
      events and other activities. He said that it was hard to separate because there

                                                                         Page 5 of 26
      were always direct and indirect costs. He said that they don’t buy things
      necessarily. Often the funds were used to subsidize the labor and cost to put
      things together.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the $45,000 went to vendors. Mr. Rappleye
      said that it went straight to the Chamber. It subsidized labor. He said that he
      had two part-time employees. He had one employee who was about to retire,
      but whom the chamber continued to employ because she had institutional
      knowledge about financials. The second employee was onboarding and
      learning the ropes.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if there was a breakdown of what the Chamber
      anticipated spending per event and what the cost was for each employee. Mr.
      Rappleye said that they did not because a lot of the time spent was for
      volunteers. He said people serving on the board were volunteers.

      Councilmember Roberts said that for him it would be helpful for him to see an
      itemized budget so that he could communicate to Draper taxpayers what their
      money was being used for. He also asked how the chamber was interfacing
      with South Valley and how they viewed that relationship going forward.

      Mr. Rappleye said that South Valley had not reached out to the Draper
      Chamber of Commerce to partner on anything. He said that they did not seem
      interested in collaborating and had their own programs.

2.3   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she shared Councilmember Roberts’
      concerns about where exactly the money was going. She said that it was a
      significant amount and the Council had to be accountable to taxpayers. She
      wanted to know exactly where the money was being spent. She continued
      that the last time the Chamber presented to the Council she had talked with
      them about potentially offering some programs to Draper City youth. Options
      included things like a Young Entrepreneurs Program, a Young Inventors
      Program, or some mentorship programs. She asked if any of those programs
      had been implemented.

      Mr. Rappleye said that those programs had been put in the drawer because
      of COVID. He said that with schools closing and the Chamber being closed that
      forward momentum on those programs had been stopped.



                                                                        Page 6 of 26
      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she did not hear about them in the list of
      plans for the upcoming year. Mr. Rappleye said that everything they were
      going to do was not presented. He said that the Chamber had been unable to
      have a planning retreat because of COVID. He said that their plan had only
      been put together in the last three weeks because they didn’t know what was
      going to happen. He said that it was an in-progress plan. He said that there
      was a lot of work to go into getting the youth programs implemented and that
      he wanted Councilmember Lowery to understand that it wasn’t as simple as a
      phone call. Councilmember T. Lowery said that she understood that, but that
      she thought that a youth program would be something that Draper residents
      would appreciate.

2.4   Councilmember T. Lowery then asked what were some of the initiatives the
      Chamber engaged in to support Draper’s local businesses during the
      pandemic.

      Mr. Rappleye said that there wasn’t a lot that they could do. He said they did
      provide information about the different grants and loans. He said that the
      Chamber did not have a fund to be able to give businesses money. He said
      that they tried to have the on-site videos as much as they could. He asked that
      the Council keep in mind that he had to cut his hours because there was no
      income coming in. He said again that they partnered with the “Stay Safe, Stay
      Open” initiative.

2.5   Councilmember Roberts told Mr. Rappleye that he was at the Point meeting
      today about the Draper prison site. He said that he was astonished by the size
      of the project and what it would be for the economic vitality of the area. He
      said that because of this, he thought that it would be helpful to have a shared
      strategic vision with the South Valley Chamber of Commerce. He felt like there
      was value in having local chambers, but that the regional chamber was very
      involved. He said that he was the liaison from the Council to the South Valley
      Chamber and asked if Mr. Rappleye would be willing to sit down with them to
      try and hammer out a shared vision. He said that he would be willing to set
      up the meeting.

      Mr. Rappleye said that sounded good.

3.0   Training: Open and Public Meetings Act – Mike Barker



                                                                        Page 7 of 26
**    Councilmember Roberts left the meeting at 6:06 PM.

3.1   Mike Barker, City Attorney, thanked the Auditor’s Office. He said that they had
      put together a decent overview video on the Open and Public Meetings Act.
      He played the seven-minute video and then shared a few slides on changes
      that happened at the legislative level to the act.

      When the video was over, Mr. Barker addressed some ways that the Open
      and Public Meetings Act specifically impacted Draper. He said that the
      Auditor’s video said that public hearings were to adopt a budget or impose
      taxes or fees. He said that as the Council was well aware, there were other
      things in Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) and the state statute that
      required a public hearing. Some of these additional causes for a public
      hearing included: Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA),
      creating a special service district, annexation and boundary adjustments,
      changes in salaries of city officers and elected officials, and impact fees. He
      then made the distinction between a public hearing and a public comment.
      He said that a public comment, which Draper includes on each of their
      agendas, allows the public to address the Council on a topic of their choosing.
      A public hearing on the other hand was a properly noticed hearing that was
      directed at a specific topic that the public can offer their input on.

      In regards to electronic meetings, Mr. Barker said that Draper had been
      operating during the pandemic based on amendments to the Open and Public
      Meetings Act passed in one of several special sessions that the legislature held
      last year. During the last session, they passed SB 125 that made minor
      revisions to the Electronic Meetings portion of the code as it pertains to
      holding an electronic meeting without an anchor location. He said that as
      Draper met their thresholds, they would be going back into its regular meeting
      format. However, should another pandemic arise, or an earthquake, the
      legislature had expanded the Mayor’s authority to hold electronic meetings
      without an anchor location. He said that Draper had been allowing electronic
      meetings under the category of “substantial risk to health or safety of those
      present.” The legislature added that an electronic meeting could be held
      without an anchor location if the “regular meeting location was closed for
      health or safety reasons.” An additional provision was added that the chair
      may shut down a meeting with an anchor location if electronic means have
      been provided to the public and the chair states the factual base to do so. Mr.
      Barker interpreted this to mean that if the building started shaking, the Mayor

                                                                         Page 8 of 26
could take everyone outside and have an electronic meeting out in the parking
lot.

In regards to closed meetings, Mr. Barker said that the Auditor correctly stated
the law as of May 4, 2021, but that it would change the following day; the
Council could not approve an ordinance, resolution, rule regulation, contract
or appoint pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-204. However, SB 72 made it clear that
the City Council may not take a vote in a closed meeting, except to open the
public meeting. This was based on a majority vote.

SB 201 made extensive changes to the publication requirements. The Deseret
News and Salt Lake Tribune don’t publish a daily paper. This was making
compliance with some of the publication notice requirements almost
impossible, especially if that had to be done for three subsequent publications
rather than three days in a row. At one point that would have been three
weeks in a row and now it would be impossible to do. SB 201 does away with
the requirement to publish in a newspaper and on a legal website, returning
to the state’s requirement that stated public hearings require ten days’ notice.
The city was also encouraged to advertise on its website and social media. The
staff has looked at both DCMC and Utah Code to make sure they were
complying with public hearing notice requirements.

Lastly, Mr. Barker said that HB 2093 clarified that an individual who comes to
an open meeting and presents electronically, for example, a developer comes
in and has their PowerPoint, or someone has a handout, those materials have
to be given to the City Recorder to make sure they are included in the
documents related to that meeting and comprise the record of that meeting.

Mayor Walker asked for clarification about what the change was in regards to
the voting in closed meetings. Mr. Barker said that to get out of a closed
meeting was a simple majority vote. What was new was that a body could not
take any vote besides exiting the meeting.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was perplexed because in a closed
meeting when the Council was discussing how they might respond to a
situation they might want to take a vote to see how they want to move forward.

David Dobbins, City Manager, said that the process in the past was for the
Council and staff to discuss and strategize pending litigation on the best way

                                                                   Page 9 of 26
      to move forward. Ultimately, the Council will have to vote on or make a
      contract on an issue in a formal meeting. An actual agreement or settlement
      could not be voted on in a closed session.

3.2   Mr. Dobbins added that something that he, Mr. Barker, and Kellie Challburg
      had discussed was the issue of holding public comment on the agendas for
      boards and commissions. Unlike including public comment at the beginning
      of each of the City Council’s agendas he recommended that boards and
      committees not hold public comment. His reason for this was that it was
      already hard enough for these bodies to get a quorum and appropriately
      notice.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was fine with that recommendation. He
      brought up the issue of other boards and commissions outside of the City
      Council and that it needed to be understood that anytime a group met a
      quorum, that constituted a public meeting.

      Mr. Barker said that was correct. He said that staff had already presented
      changes to Title 3 to the Council on what constituted a quorum. He said that
      he felt the city needed to find a sweet spot on the number of people on a board
      and what constituted a quorum. He said that some of the larger committees
      wanted to break down into sub-committees. He said that he thought the city
      wanted to encourage entities to be able to do that, but not to have the quorum
      so small that they couldn’t meet without making it a public meeting.

**    Councilmember Roberts returned to the meeting at 6:24 PM.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that currently the quorum was set as a meeting
      with three people. He said that for some of those larger groups, a sub-
      committee could only consist of two people making it difficult to be productive.

      Mr. Dobbins said that staff had shot for three because they were having a
      difficult time with some of the smaller committees having a quorum. For
      example, with the Tree Commission, if only four people showed up, they
      couldn’t even hold the meeting. The quorum was reduced so that these
      meetings could continue to be held while different boards and committees
      were becoming fully staffed. As the boards and committees filled their full
      capacity, Mr. Dobbins thought the quorum could be increased to five.



                                                                        Page 10 of 26
      Councilmember F. Lowry said that if you looked at the size of the Parks and
      Trails Committees, limiting the quorum made being productive difficult. He
      said that as City Councilmembers, he felt that it was important that they stay
      on top of the rules for the committees they were in charge of to help oversee
      the rules and regulations.

      Mr. Barker said that he’d had a conversation with someone today who said
      that it sounded like the city was trying to become rigid. Mr. Barker responded
      that as the City Attorney it was his job to make sure they followed the Open
      and Public Meetings Act. Because of this, some rigidity was necessary. Beyond
      that, he hoped that the committees could be a little more flexible in how they
      operate. Despite this, certain benchmarks had to be met to be following the
      act.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if Councilmember F. Lowry proposed that they
      have different quorum levels for different boards so that a small group wasn’t
      controlling. Councilmember F. Lowry said that he thought they may want to
      look at that. It wasn’t about a small group controlling, but about the group
      being able to be productive. The Tree Commission had a newly active
      commission who were trying to respond to the tasks the Council asked them
      to work on. When they organized a sub-committee and got together, they
      realize that they had more than three people and had to put the brakes on the
      meeting because it was going to be a quorum and a public meeting. He said
      that the same situation occurred in the past week with the Arena Board.

      Mr. Barker said that there wasn’t an issue in requiring that a sub-committee
      have an open meeting. He said that the challenge was getting people together,
      getting the agenda, and making sure that it was published appropriately that
      was the challenge. He said that what was said in a sub-committee meeting
      was fair game to the public; the city wasn’t trying to hide anything. They
      wanted to make sure that there was some nimbleness to be able to get that
      committee together.

4.0   Council/Manager Reports

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey said that she had a business owner approach her
      asking about a farmers’ market. The business owner wanted to see Draper
      have one. She said that there had been a lot of past discussion about this in
      the past and that the County held a market down at Wheadon Farms, but that

                                                                      Page 11 of 26
it never seemed to go very far for very long. She wanted to get the Council’s
opinion if it would be good to pursue a farmers’ market. The gentleman
offered to be on a committee if a committee was formed to have a farmers’
market.

Councilmember Roberts said that he loved the idea in theory. He asked why
they had not worked in the past. Mr. Dobbins said that they had looked at
farmers’ markets over the years. He said that a big part of a market being
successful was having a dedicated person to manage the event. It was a little
bit like a small version of Draper Days every week that required someone to
manage the people who showed up, direct them where to go, make sure they
have power, etc. He said that the other challenge was finding the right site.
During the summer months, it made sense to hold the market at a busy park,
but that use competed with already overcrowded spaces.

Councilmember Vawdrey said that the gentleman she spoke with did not
expect or think that the market could be pulled together this year.

Councilmember Roberts asked what a market would take in regards to staff
resources and other resources/infrastructure. He asked if there was a lot of
expense and if the team had bandwidth. Mr. Dobbins said a market had not
been discussed in a while. He would have to talk with staff.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the County would partner with Draper. Mr.
Dobbins said that he didn’t know. Staff could ask.

Councilmember Vawdrey said that she was not proposing that staff take on
the market. She felt like they could form a committee. She said the staff’s help
would be great.

Councilmember Roberts asked if there were other regional farmers’ markets
that could be used to create buzz. Councilmember Vawdrey said that she
thought the chamber had talked about it once. She felt like there was
opportunity and that it might just be an issue of getting organized. She said
that you’d have to get produce and some businesses to come.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that he felt like Draper’s size had grown such
that there was a demand for a market more so than in the past.



                                                                  Page 12 of 26
4.2   Councilmember Vawdrey said that she would like for the Council to create
      goals and priorities for the commissions for the upcoming year so that the
      commissions could more easily see the Council’s vision.

      Councilmember Roberts thought that was a great idea. He felt that the Council
      wanted to give the boards an agenda that comes from the Council. He felt that
      would be a great way to consolidate the plan.

4.3   Councilmember Roberts said that he was curious about the state changes with
      COVID mandates what was Draper’s timeline for getting the public back in for
      meetings.

      Mr. Dobbins said that as of the day of the meeting the pandemic officially
      ended in Utah. He said that they did need to start having a serious discussion
      about what the Council wanted to do in regards to opening the City Council
      Meeting up to the public. He said that there was wide variation in what other
      cities were doing. Some were as restricted as Draper and some were fully
      open. He said that he would look to the Council to give staff direction.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if other cities required masks. Mr. Dobbins
      said that masks were not required anymore under state direction. The Council
      would have to be comfortable knowing that they were potentially inviting folks
      in without masks. He said that staff could look at options, they just needed to
      know the comfort level of the Council.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he would like to see the Council move
      towards allowing the public back in. He felt like they could limit the number
      of folks present and have some social distancing as mentioned. They could
      then give the pandemic a bit more time to slowly move back into full public
      meetings as cases continue to decrease and vaccinations go up.

      Mayor Walker said that he thought the idea of a limited number would work.
      He didn’t quite know how to respond to this statement that the pandemic was
      over. He said that he had a close family member die three weeks ago from
      COVID.

4.4   Councilmember F. Lowry returned to issues related to commissions and
      boards. He wanted to report on both the Tree Commission and the Arena
      Board. He agreed with Councilmember Vawdrey that coming up with goals for

                                                                       Page 13 of 26
      each of the commissions was an important step to take. He said that he had
      tried to do that with the Tree Commission based on what was discussed as a
      Council. The Tree Commission had created two sub-committees. The first was
      a water conservancy committee that was working on zero scaping that could
      be presented back to the Council and shared on the website. The second sub-
      committee was focused on public outreach. Their goal was to help educate
      residents about putting the right tree in the right place and helping with water
      conservation. In addition to posting content on the website, the commission
      wants to include information in the Draper Forward and the monthly e-
      newsletter. The Tree Commission also has appreciated staff who have been
      working with them. He said that Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, had been
      great in working with the commission on items related to city code.

      In regards to the Arena Board, he would like to discuss changing the name of
      the board or how the board was defined. He said that it’s the natural tendency
      to look at the Arena Board and think it has an equestrian connection. The
      board was a lot more than that. In effect, it was being asked to put together
      events at the equestrian center. He said that there were great opportunities
      that could be used beyond just the rodeo. The Arena Board didn’t do the
      rodeo anyway; it was done by the foundation. Rather, the Arena Board was
      putting together a motocross event, had ideas for some concerts, and some
      other ideas. He felt like new members were needed and that if the name of
      the committee was changed to include events or event planning that more
      individuals might be attracted.

      Mayor Walker asked how the committee would feel about an MMA event,
      Mixed Martial Arts. Councilmember F. Lowry said that he thought that would
      be awesome. Mayor Walker said that he was the chair of the commission so
      he could make it happen. Councilmember F. Lowry said that Draper had a
      huge outdoor arena that could be used for so many events. He said that there
      wasn’t a better view of the valley than that arena. He said that it could host
      some cool things.

4.5   Councilmember F. Lowry said, in regards to preparing for the rodeo, the
      Arena Board was going to meet with some folks from the Parks Committee.
      Some improvements needed to be made to the arena so that it could be ready
      for the rodeo. He didn’t think that there would be major expenses. He
      thanked the Wadsworth Company who had volunteered time and welders to



                                                                        Page 14 of 26
      do some repair work. He felt like Draper needed to do something as a city to
      recognize the Wadsworth Company for how they have contributed.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said she happened to know the chair of the board
      who mentioned the disrepair of the arena and came home with a bunch of
      puncture weed stickers in his shoes. She wondered if there could be a cleanup
      day.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that there had been a discussion about having
      the full Arena Board and the Foundation combine to do some of the cleanup.
      He thought that could be expanded beyond those two groups. He said that
      there were a lot of weeds at the arena.

      Mayor Walker said that he thought that it was going to be a banner year for
      them. He said they seemed to be everywhere.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she didn’t have anything but that she
      loved the idea of a farmer’s market.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the arena was another option for the
      farmers’ market.

4.6   Mr. Dobbins wanted to remind the Council that Christina Oliver, Community
      Development Director, was leaving Draper staff next week. He wanted to
      thank her for her time. He said that it was a difficult job that she had done a
      great job at.

Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Proclamation: Arbor Day 2021

      Mayor Walker read the Arbor Day 2021 Proclamation:

          Whereas in 1872 J. Sterling Morton proposed to the National Board of
          Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees; and
          whereas this holiday called Arbor Day was first observed with the planting
          of more than one million trees in Nebraska and Arbor Day is now observed

                                                                       Page 15 of 26
          throughout the nation and the world; and whereas trees reduce the
          erosion of precious top soil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling
          costs, moderate temperature, clean the air, produce oxygen and provide
          habitat for wildlife; and whereas trees are a renewable resource, giving us
          paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our fires, and countless other wood
          products; and whereas trees in Draper City increase property values and
          enhance the economic vitality of business areas and beautify our
          community; and whereas Draper City has been recognized as a Tree City
          USA by the National Arbor Day Foundation and seeks to continue its tree
          planting practices; now therefore, I, Mayor Troy K. Walker of Draper City,
          along with the members of the Draper City Council do herby proclaim April
          30th, 2021 as Arbor Day in Draper City and encourage residents to
          celebrate Arbor Day and support efforts to protect our trees and
          woodlands.

      Mayor Walker said that there was an Arbor Day celebration where those who
      were available planted two trees in a park off Osborne Lane. He said that it
      was great. He said that Draper had been a Tree City USA for 27 years. He said
      it was nice to continue with the designation as a Tree City USA.

3.0   Public Comments

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of April 20, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #21-14, amending Policy 10400- Vehicle Usage and
         Accident Reporting.
      c. Approval of Resolution #21-18, amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule
         reducing the monthly Storm Water Utility Fee, changing the name for Lot
         Line Adjustments, and splitting out Subdivision Plat Amendments into
         separate types.
      d. Approval of Resolution #21-20, appointing Susan Nixon as an alternate
         member of the Draper City Planning Commission.

4.1   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve                 the   Consent    Items.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.



                                                                       Page 16 of 26
5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1484, an ordinance amending the official zoning
      map of Draper City for approximately 0.99 acres of property from RA1
      (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) to RA2 (Residential
      Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum), located at approximately 13785
      South 300 East within Draper City, otherwise known as the HMB Zoning Map
      Amendment.

5.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, said the item was for the HMB rezone. He
      displayed the land use map of the General Plan and noted that the property
      was surrounded by residential low to medium density. When looking at the
      zoning map, the property was surrounded by RA1 and RM1 zoning designation
      with RM2 to the east. The property was currently zoned RA1 and was
      developed as a single-family home in 1985. The applicant requested that a
      zoning map amendment be approved to change the zoning of the property
      from RA1 to RA2 for a possible future subdivision on the property or to secure
      the property from being zoned to a higher density. The RA2 zone requires a
      20,000 square foot minimum lot size. Since the property was approximately
      one acre in size, the RA2 zone designation would meet the requirement. On
      April 8, 2021, the Planning Commission provided a positive recommendation
      to the City Council to approve the zone change with a vote of 5-0.

5.2   Howard Beik, the applicant, said that he lived right next to the property in
      question. He explained that he initially purchased the property to prevent
      developers from developing what was on the corner. He said that he lived in
      the community. That dividing the property in half was well within what was
      originally contemplated given that it was an acre lot. Given that he had no idea
      what was going to happen with Draper’s development, on the advice of his
      father-in-law, he wanted to keep the option to be able to subdivide. He said
      that if he wanted to develop further, his neighbors would run him out of town.
      He had no intention of doing that. He felt that what he asked for was
      reasonable.

5.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. Mayor Walker closed the public
      hearing.

5.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1484, the HMB
      Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.




                                                                       Page 17 of 26
5.5   Councilmember F. Lowry said he thought that this request was a great use of
      the lot. He said that he was happy to see that as an option for the lot. He
      appreciated what the applicant did.

5.6   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she agreed that this was a good use of the
      lot. She asked if the lot was developed if there would be a second driveway or
      if there would be access to the original driveway.

      Mr. Ekelenburg said that the item was just for the rezone part of development.
      He said that if the lot were developed there would be two single-family homes
      on the property with the zoning designation.

      Jennifer Jastremsky, Senior Planner, said that there were a couple of options a
      developer could consider at the time of subdivision: they could have a private
      lane that provided access to both homes, or they could have direct access from
      300 East. She said that at this point there were no subdivision plots so staff
      had not evaluated the specific access.

5.7   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1488, an ordinance of Draper City amending the
      text of the Land Use and Development Code (Title 9) and the Land
      Development Code (Title 17) of the Draper City Municipal Code relating to
      definitions, regulations, and general standards in Code Sections 9-3-040, 9-5-
      200, 9-27-200, 9-42-040, 17-1-040, 17-1-085, 17-3-030, 17-4-030, 17-5-030, 17-
      9-050, 17-9-060, and enacting a new section 17-1-075: Land Use Exemptions
      for Single Family Dwellings.

6.1   Todd Draper, planner, said that in the 2021 legislative session several bills
      dealt with land use regulations and subdivision. The proposed amendments
      to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) were needed to comply with the many
      new regulations. He said that as he did with the Planning Commission, he
      would trust that the Council was able to read all of the text amendments and
      he would forgo the 51 slides for the presentation. He was open to specific
      questions from the Council. The Planning Commission recommended
      approval of these changes to the City Council with a vote of 5-0.




                                                                       Page 18 of 26
6.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. Mayor Walker closed the public
      hearing.

6.3   Councilmember T.     Lowery moved to approve                  Ordinance    #1488.
      Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

6.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1489, an ordinance amending Title 2 of the Draper
      City Municipal Code regarding the publication of approved ordinances and
      election notices.

7.1   Laura Oscarson, City Recorder, said that as Mr. Barker discussed in the Study
      Session when the legislature passed SB 201, this made it necessary to amend
      DCMC Title 2. She said in the future there might be more changes that were
      needed. She said that SB 201 was more than 200 pages long. The first change
      would address the publication of approved ordinances. The change to DCMC
      denotes that new ordinance approvals would be posted on the Utah Public
      Notice Website and the requirement to publish the approval of an ordinance
      in the paper would be removed. The second change was to Draper City’s
      election notice. The only change to this section of the code was to remove the
      requirement to publish notifications in the newspaper and renumbering the
      ordinance accordingly.

7.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if there was a place to publish on social media
      that could be utilized as a part of the noticing.

      Ms. Oscarson asked Councilmember F. Lowry if there was a particular
      platform he was concerned about. She said that if he looked at the code
      related to taking office, those notices for elections had to be posted at City Hall
      and also to be noticed on the city website, in the city newsletter, or with utility
      bills. Ordinances typically are not advertised on social media, but the City kept
      noticing requirements at the level of what the state required.

      Mayor Walker said that one of the problems with noticing via channels that
      were not required was that it created an expectation that could cause
      dissatisfaction if the posting was ever missed.



                                                                          Page 19 of 26
7.3   Councilmember F.     Lowry moved to approve                  Ordinance    #1489.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

7.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-19, adopting the Tentative Budget for Fiscal Year
      ending June 30, 2022, and setting the public hearing for June 1, 2021, to take
      public comment on the Tentative Budget.

8.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, presented the tentative budget for FY2022. He
      began by talking about the letter at the beginning of the budget. He said that
      the tentative FY22 budget was balanced throughout the city. He explained that
      there were 10 major city funds with a total budget of $104,999,600. This
      includes current and newly projected capital projects. He pointed out some
      highlights of the General Fund. The project budget for the General Fund in
      FY22 was $35,370,000. At the time, staff had not yet received the certified
      property tax rate from the State Tax Commission. It was not anticipated that
      staff would receive this until June 10th, 2021. Right now, it was indicated in the
      budget to adopt that certified rate. There was also some new growth included
      that would cause an increase in property tax revenues. He said that of the $35
      million, $29 million or 82.0% of the General Fund revenues did come from
      sales and property taxes. He continued that throughout the General Fund
      tentative budget there was a proposal for a 5% salary increase adjustment.
      This was a 2% COLA and 3% merit. Public safety had the respective step system
      for salary increases included in the proposed budget. There were no new
      employee positions included in the FY22 budget.

      In the Enterprise Funds (Culinary Water, Storm Water, Solid Waste, and
      Ambulance Funds), there was a combined budget of $16 million. He noted
      that one of the consent items was the consolidated fees. The Storm Water
      Fund represented a $2 a month decrease in the monthly bill. This represents
      a 22% rate reduction. The other enterprise funds did not have an increase in
      rates. The proposed budget did include funds for capital increase such as a
      new garbage truck and some other light-duty trucks from the Culinary Water
      and Storm Water Funds. The Water Department had also requested a
      replacement of their water service truck for $230,000. One new operational
      program was added to the Water Fund for $50,000 for annual tank cleaning.



                                                                         Page 20 of 26
      There were two Internal Service Funds in the FY22 budget: The Risk
      Management Fund and Fleet Management Fund.

      Mr. Wylie continued that the Community Development Renewal Agency Fund
      2010 would be addressed as a separate budget item at the RDA meeting. The
      Municipal Building Authority (MBA) Fund did not have a budget because of the
      bond defeasement that occurred in FY21.

      The Capital Improvement Projects Funds had a budget of $29 million. These
      projects had been previously approved and funded by the City Council. Also
      included in the budget were reoccurring projects for the replacement and
      maintenance programs. Included in this was a vehicle replacement for
      $767,000.

      Mr. Wylie said that if the Council adopted the tentative budget, it would
      become available to the public through the website with hard copies
      accessible. A public hearing needed to be set for June 1, 2021, for the budget.
      After staff received the certified tax rate later in June, they would bring the
      Council the final budget for FY22.

8.2   Mr. Dobbins said that his focus for next year’s budget was on employees. He
      said that if you looked at the open positions on Draper’s website, there was a
      lot. The job market had become so tight that it was becoming very difficult to
      recruit new employees. He said that he would rather spend money on
      retaining employees as opposed to trying to get new ones. He said that giving
      folks the ability to stay in Draper saved the city money in the long run and
      prevented training and turnover. He said that was the justification for the 5%
      salary increase. He said that covered retirement and benefits. Because of this,
      there was not a big focus on new projects and programs because he believed
      in the need to focus on core functions and responsibilities at least for another
      year. He said that before he had departments looking at what else they could
      do, he felt like the city was in a position where they needed to make sure they
      could sustain what it was already committed to.

      He also spoke about the federal funding that would come with the next round
      of stimulus money. He said that the staff did not know what that would look
      like. He said that he was on a call last week with the National League of Cities.
      Their takes were that “whatever you’ve been told so far is probably wrong.”
      Staff had no idea how much money, when it would come, or how they would

                                                                        Page 21 of 26
be able to spend it. The proposed budget took the approach to continue doing
what had been done in the previous year and to just wait to see what would
come of the stimulus money. Most likely in the late summer or early fall, staff
would come back to the Council with one-time funds that would free up other
money for one-time projects. He said that it looked like anywhere from $5-10
million would come to Draper. That could significantly change what the city
could do with the upcoming budget.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked Mr. Dobbins if he felt that the 5% increase
was enough to help with staff retention. Mr. Dobbins said that in general yes.
He said that staff had adjusted for specific positions. He said that they would
look at what the market dictated for certain positions. If staff found that some
positions were well below market compensation, they would be addressed
individually. He said that although generally, the 5% adjustment was enough,
it did look like everything was going up. He said that other cities were
struggling to find new employees. Draper was facing retirements from
employees. He said that he felt nervous. He did not know that the 5% was
going to get them through the whole year. He said that he would like to get
the budget adopted as proposed and then revisit the question of salaries in a
few months when they knew about the stimulus money. He said that a year
ago, Draper pulled back on sales tax because they were scared that with the
pandemic, they wouldn’t hit the expected budget. That turned out very
differently than anticipated. He said that the years of projecting comfortably
were over. Last year he wasn’t comfortable and this year he wasn’t
comfortable either.

Councilmember F. Lowry said that he was supportive of increasing staff wages
if that was necessary when the issue was reevaluated later.

Mr. Dobbins reminded that the Council was not adopting the budget tonight.
They were adopting the tentative budget. This served as a starting point. He
encouraged the Council to sit down with him or Mr. Wylie if certain programs
or projects were not included in the budget.

Councilmember Roberts asked if there was a sense of the year-over-year
increase in the General Fund expenditures.

Mr. Wylie said that last year there was $2.8 million from the CARES Act. This
skewed last year’s budget. When that money was taken out, there was growth.

                                                                 Page 22 of 26
He said that when he looked at FY21, the current budget, the city added 16
items in the General Fund for $800,000. He said that operational costs had not
increased, but payroll and compensation had. He said that payroll was roughly
63% of the General Fund. This went up 2-3% a year.

Councilmember Roberts said that the payroll piece in the proposed budget
was 5% going forward. He asked what percentage of the property tax base
had increased over time.

Mr. Wylie said he had the number on an excel spreadsheet, but he didn’t know
the number here. He said he could send that information to the Council.

Councilmember Roberts said that he guessed that the property tax revenue
increase was growing at a smaller rate than the General Fund budget.

Mr. Wylie said that Draper’s property taxes brought in about $8 million, or
one-third of the overall payroll for the city.

Councilmember Roberts said again that he sensed that the rate of growth in
expenditure of the General Fund was increasing a greater percentage than the
rate of growth in property tax revenues. Because of this, the City would be
relying on increases in sales taxes to meet growing expenditures. He asked if
there was a sense of the increase in sales taxes year-over-year.

Mr. Wylie said that they had budgeted conservatively on sales tax revenues
for FY22, a 4% increase from FY21. He said that sales tax revenues had been
increasing by close to 8-9% the last few years. He said that, as was mentioned
by Mr. Dobbins, in FY21 they took out $2.5 million in sales tax revenues.

Councilmember Roberts said that the increase in sales tax revenues had been
the main piece to offset increases in General Fund expenditures.

Mr. Wylie said that property taxes as a result of new growth were only
increasing by $300,000 a year, whereas sales taxes were increasing by
$800,000 or more.

Councilmember Roberts asked Mr. Dobbins about the strategy for attracting
more sales tax in the city and some places where there had been wins and
challenges. Mr. Dobbins said that the City had seen a reduction in the growth

                                                                Page 23 of 26
of new businesses. He said that the City’s strategy for a long while had been
to focus on sales tax as opposed to property tax growth. They went after IKEA
and RC Willey. Staff had also focused on bringing in car dealerships. Another
large furniture retailer that was not currently in Utah was close to being
secured to be based in Draper. He said that staff had heard complaints about
the growth in Draper. However, in regards to forecasting how to keep
employees and continue doing projects, it was much easier to go after sales
tax than property taxes.

Councilmember Roberts noted that Mr. Dobbins had explained that the
priority for this year’s budget and how it reflected his values. He clarified that
the goal of the budget was to retain talent and fill vacant positions.

Mr. Dobbins said that it was. He said that if you asked department directors,
they would all tell the Council what their individual needs were. He was
forthright that the budget did not reflect what they wanted to see in it. Despite
this, he would rather have flexibility built into the budget so that in a few
months if the city had to address employees who were looking elsewhere or
attracting new employees that there were funds to negotiate. He said that if
they don’t have staff to fill the basic functions, none of the additional projects
were possible. That was his strategy.

Councilmember Roberts thanked staff for fielding his questions. He said that
he thought that prior city leadership, Mr. Dobbins and Mayor Walker, had
done a great job of building out a great, diversified, commercial tax base. He
thought that the city was benefiting from that effort.

Mayor Walker said that when he first started as mayor, Draper was one of the
first cities to go to the retailers’ convention. It was like a secret. Now everyone
goes. He said that it was strategic. When he ran for office as a councilmember
originally, it was because he did not want property taxes to keep going up as
they do in other cities that do not have a commercial base. He noted that now
the legislature wanted to take some of the retail tax bases from Draper
because other cities had not done such a great job.

Councilmember Roberts asked if Mr. Wylie or Mr. Dobbins could speak to that
threat. Mr. Dobbins said that other cities who were not on 1-15 or who had
not put out the same effort or emphasis on sales tax and retail had made
claims to the legislature that their revenues were not fair. This year the issue

                                                                    Page 24 of 26
of sales taxes was contextualized differently. In the past cities kept commercial
zones in place because they saw certain properties as being good locations for
commercial activity. Because of this, they would be unwilling to change
commercial zones to residential zones. If, for example, an area was zoned
commercial and someone came in and said they wanted to put in a multi-
family development, Draper might say that an area was great retail space and
deny the residential zone change. People in the state legislature had said that
they did not like that approach and had proposed strategies that would create
disincentives for the city to keep commercial zones such as preventing cities
from collecting sales taxes in the future on properties. He said that there was
a formula based on population. The 1% sales tax gets split up. Other cities
have made the argument that if they can’t attract car dealerships the same
way Draper does why should Draper get the advantage. Legislators have
suggested that sales tax should be awarded strictly on population. Every city
will get the same amount based on population, regardless of the location of
the sale. He said that discussion comes and goes every session and it was
brought up again in the 2021 session.

Mayor Walker said his issue was that there were a lot of cities that strategically
don’t want commercial entities and sales tax. He said that it went back to the
RC Willey deal. He said that Draper had been aggressive and strategic about
increasing their sales taxes. Other cities didn’t want that and that was fine.

Mr. Dobbins said that Draper had always fought against the sales tax being
divided strictly on population. If that happened Draper would see a loss of
millions of dollars of revenue that would have to be put on the property tax.
That would cause a huge outcry from the public in Draper.

Councilmember F. Lowry asked if that sales tax was then going to be equally
distributed, who would have to pay for servicing those commercial
establishments. Part of the sales tax was to help service that.

Mr. Dobbins said that he thought what would happen was the flip side: cities
would say that they wouldn’t host commercial retailers because they didn’t
want to hold the burden that came with it. Then staff would have to break out
the pencil and say that hosting commercial spaces did not work. He asked who
wanted large, big-box retail that you got no tax revenue from.




                                                                   Page 25 of 26
       Councilmember Roberts said that would completely               disincentivize
       commercial. Why would you want any retail at all?

8.3    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Resolution #21-19, adopting the
       Tentative Budget and setting the public hearing for June 1, 2021.
        Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

8.4    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Recess to a Redevelopment Agency meeting.

9.1    Councilmember T. Lowery moved to recess to a Redevelopment Agency
       Meeting. Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

9.2    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting.            Councilmember
       Lowery seconded the motion.

10.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:47 p.m.




                                                                      Page 26 of 26
