[page 1]

                                    [Draper Utah logo]

                        Development Review Committee
                            1020 East Pioneer Road
                             Draper, UT  84020
                                 9/1/2021

To:          Draper City Planning Commission
             Business Date: 9/9/2021

From:        Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Spencer DuShane, Assistant City Attorney
             Legal Department
             801-576-6583, spencer.dushane@draperutah.gov

Re:   Revision of Titles 9 and 17 of the Draper City Municipal Code
regarding improvement completion assurances – Land Use Ordinance
             Applicant:         Draper City
             Project Location:   1020 Pioneer Rd, Draper UT, 84020
             Request:            Ordinance Amendments.


BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
This application is a city-initiated amendment to the Draper City Municipal Code
("DCMC"). The current version of the code needs revision to be simplified, to
comply with state law, and to match current city practices.


ANALYSIS

The current sections of the DCMC that address improvement completion assurances
over which the planning commission has jurisdiction were last revised in 2015.
Other portions of the DCMC over which the planning commission does not have
jurisdiction but also address improvement completion assurances were last revised
as long ago as 1998.

In addition, the legal department is preparing to revise its contract forms for the
different reasons a stakeholder might need to provide an improvement completion
assurance. The revisions to the contract forms necessitate a revision to the code
upon which those forms are based.

Rather than revise each section individually, all sections are being revised together
so that the language used is consistent across all of the DCMC.

                                       1

[page 2]

Draper City legal department proposes a text Amendment to sections 9-1-190, 9-1-
195, 17-4-070, 17-4-075 and 17-5-060 of the DCMC as detailed in Exhibit A.
A Text Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the City
Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in making a
recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider the
following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:


   1. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and
      policies of the city's general plan;
   2. Whether a proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of
      the zoning ordinance;
   3. Whether the proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the
      request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning
      ordinance;
   4. The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
      part of this title or the general plan;
   5. Whether the potential effects of the proposed amendment have been
      evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or
      welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
   6. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
      professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices


STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Legislative Items:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation based on the findings listed below and the
criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

If the Planning Commission decides to make a positive recommendation, staff
recommends they include the following conditions of approval:

      1.     That the amendments of the DCMC are consistent with the purposes
             and goals of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
             Planning departments.

The findings for approval as are follows:

      1.     That the amendments of the DCMC are consistent with the purposes and
             goals of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building, Planning
             departments.

The findings for denial as are follows:

                                       2

[page 3]

      1.     That the amendments of the DCMC are not consistent with the
             purposes and goals of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works,
             Building, Planning departments.


Legislative Items and Administrative Items with Standard Conditions:

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the presented text amendments as requested by staff, based
on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report dated
9/1/2021.

                                       3

[page 4]

                DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

We, the undersigned, as duly appointed members of the Draper City Development
Review Committee, do acknowledge that the application which provides the subject
for this staff report has been reviewed by the Committee and has been found to be
appropriate for review by the Draper City Planning Commission and/or City Council.

[signature]                             [signature]
Draper City Public Works                Draper City Planning Division
Department
                                        [signature]
[signature]                             Draper City Legal Counsel
Draper City Fire Department

[signature]
Draper City Building Division

                                       4

[page 5]

                                  EXHIBIT A
                    REVISED SECTIONS OF CODE AND AMENDMENTS

9-1-190: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION:

Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 9-1-195, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title.

9-1-195: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:

   A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required 9-1-190. For purposes
      of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is
      defined as codified in Utah Code §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of
      an improvement completion assurance limited by this code are:

         1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
         2. Cash;
         3. A cash bond
         4. A cashier's check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
         5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
            50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
            upon default; or
         6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the community
            development director and the city attorney.

   B. Improvements secured by an improvement completion assurance must be
      accompanied by an improvement completion assurance agreement. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify the manner timeframe
      for the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.


17-4-070: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION:

Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 17-4-075, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title following Planning Commission and prior to recording a plat.

17-4-075: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:

[page 6]

   A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required by this title. For
      purposes of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion
      assurance is defined as codified in Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103 except that the
      acceptable forms of an improvement completion assurance limited by this code
      are:

         1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;
         2. Cash;
         3. A cash bond;
         4. A cashier's check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;
         5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
            50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
            upon default; or
         6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the City Engineer,
            and the City Attorney.

   B. Each person who provides an improvement completion assurance must also enter
      into an improvement completion assurance agreement with the city. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify additional details for
      the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.


17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:
A.   Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all residential subdivisions
within the City detailing the landscaping in all public and common areas of the
development and any other area required to be landscaped as a condition of
development approval. In addition, whenever the Planning Commission determines
there are areas within developments which warrant screening, buffering, or are of
sufficient size or visibility to warrant special treatment, the developer may be required to
provide a landscaping plan for such areas for review and approval by the City. All
landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of the landscaped areas will be
performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to Draper City standards
and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that best serve the
intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be appropriate for the
local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. When required by the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the nature or size of the proposed
landscaping, developers may be required to have the landscaping plans prepared and
stamped by a registered landscape architect.
   A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with the final plat
application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover within
park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required to support the

[page 7]

designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar deep watering
systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the landscaping plan.
B.   Street Trees:
1.   Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in Draper City shall
provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to reduce heat, dust, glare
and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and oxygenate the air; to reduce
road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil health; to mask undesirable views and
enhance pleasing views; to develop continuity among developments; and to generally
enhance the appearance of the City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and
vitality. A street tree plan, which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the
Draper City tree guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all
subdivisions. The subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required
number, species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.
2.   Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement completion assurance and
accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070 and DCMC 17-4-075 is
required for street tree installation with all subdivision. The subdivider shall post an
improvement completion assurance with the City prior to recording any subdivision or
phase of each subdivision. The amount shall be set by the City and shall be sufficient to
cover the cost of providing trees for the individual lot, but shall not be less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per required tree. Funds from an improvement completion
assurance will be held by the Draper City Community Development Department, and
shall not be released until a site inspection has verified the proper tree installation has
occurred, in accordance with the procedure outlined below:
   Total street tree and park strip landscaping amounts shall be calculated by multiplying
the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and landscaping plan by three
hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in an estimated landscaping and
irrigation systems cost. This amount shall be posted with each subdivision or phase of a
subdivision prior to the recording of any final or minor plat. During the construction and
occupancy of homes within a subdivision, subdivider would have two (2) annual
opportunities to reduce or refund a portion of the  improvement completion assurance.
These reductions shall be linked to the installation of the street trees as described on
the street tree planting plan.
   Annual opportunities for reduction shall occur once in the spring, between April 1 and
May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to November 30. These dates
are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the hottest times of the year for
a higher establishment success rate.
   3.   Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In areas
where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb, street trees
shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees shall be
installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed by the City
Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems shall be
professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic watering
system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The developer
shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential subdivision which shall be

[page 8]

reviewed by the Draper City Community Development Department and forwarded to the
Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. A diversity of species is
encouraged to minimize the danger of losing an entire monospecific planting to blight,
insects or some other species specific condition. After installation by the subdivider,
individual homeowners are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of required
park strip street trees.

[page 9]

NOTE ON EXHIBIT B (REDLINES): the following pages show tracked changes.
Deleted (struck-through) text is marked [DEL: ...]; added (underlined) text is
marked [ADD: ...]. Struck/added markers reproduce the source markup.

                                  EXHIBIT B
                                  REDLINES
9-1-190: IMPROVEMENT [DEL: AND PERFORMANCE BONDS][ADD: COMPLETION]:

[DEL: A.   All private improvements required under this title or by the city planning
commission, including, but not limited to, buildings, fences, landscaping, and parking,
shall be satisfactorily installed prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the land
being developed. In lieu of actual completion of such improvements and prior to
occupancy permit issuance, a developer may file with the city a cash bond or a letter of
credit in an amount equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
completion costs, to ensure completion of improvements within one year. The estimate
of costs shall be provided by the developer's contractors. After bonding for the
improvements, the developer is eligible for temporary occupancy. Upon completion of
the improvements for which such bond has been filed, the developer shall call for
inspections of the improvements by the zoning administrator or an authorized agent.
The bond shall be released and permanent occupancy granted after verification that the
improvements have been installed per the approved plans.]

[DEL: B.   If the city determines that the required private improvements should be completed in
a specified sequence or in less than a one year period in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the city or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other
hazards, it may require in approving the bond that the improvements be installed in a
specified sequence and period which may be less than one year and shall incorporate
such requirements in the bond.]

[DEL: C.   The improvements covered under subsections A and B of this section are in
addition to and separate from any improvement bonds, escrow deposits or letters of
credits required by the engineering division for public improvements.]


[ADD: Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 9-1-195, a subdivider
must install all public landscaping and infrastructure improvements required under this
title.]


[ADD: 9-1-195: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:]

   [ADD: A. An applicant may provide the city with an improvement completion assurance as
      defined below in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
      estimated completion costs in lieu of an obligation required 9-1-190. For purposes
      of this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is
      defined as codified in Utah Code §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of
      an improvement completion assurance limited by this code are:]

         [ADD: 1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;]

[page 10]

         [ADD: 2. Cash;]
         [ADD: 3. A cash bond]
         [ADD: 4. A cashier's check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;]
         [ADD: 5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
            50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
            upon default; or]
         [ADD: 6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the community
            development director and the city attorney.]

   [DEL: A.][ADD: B.]     [ADD: Improvements secured by an improvement completion assurance must be
      accompanied by an improvement completion assurance agreement. An
      improvement completion assurance agreement may specify the manner timeframe
      for the completion of work contemplated by the agreement.]

17-4-070: [DEL: SECURITY FOR REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS][ADD: IMPROVEMENT
COMPLETION]:
[DEL: A.   Following Planning Commission approval but prior to recording, the]
[ADD: Unless an application is made and an agreement reached under 17-4-075, a] subdivider
[DEL: shall complete][ADD: must install] all [DEL: required ]public landscaping and infrastructure
improvements[DEL: ; however, upon the subdivider's request, the] [ADD: required under this title
following Planning Commission and prior to recording a plat.]

[ADD: 17-4-075: IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCES:]

[ADD: An ]applicant may [DEL: record the plat prior to the installation of all required landscaping and
infrastructure improvements if subdivider has first entered into an ][ADD: provide the city with
an ]improvement [DEL: guarantee agreement acceptable to the City as security to ensure
completion of all improvements required to be installed][ADD: assurance as defined below] in
[DEL: the subdivision. The agreement shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney, shall
be signed by the City Engineer and shall state the following: (Ord. 1332, 7-10-2018)]
[ADD: an amount ][DEL: 1.   The subdivider agrees to complete all improvements within eighteen (18)
months from the date the agreement is executed subject to an extension granted
pursuant to subsection D of this section.]
[DEL: 2.   The improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of the City and in
accordance with the City's standard specifications and details.]
[DEL: 3.   The amount of the security shall be ][ADD: equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the]
[DEL: subdivider's or developer's engineer's detailed, written estimate of the cost of the
landscaping and infrastructure improvements to be installed, as confirmed and
approved in writing by the City Engineer.]
[DEL: 4.   The City shall have immediate access to the proceeds.]
[DEL: 5.   Security proceeds may be reduced upon the written request of the subdivider as
system improvements are completed. The amount of the reduction shall be determined
by the City Engineer. Reductions shall be made only as they apply to the ][ADD: estimated]
completion[DEL:, satisfactory to the City Engineer, of entire systems. The required]

[page 11]

[DEL: landscaping and infrastructure improvements are typically grouped into six (6) system
categories: culinary water, storm drainage, roadways, parks/trails and landscaping,
erosion control and miscellaneous/finish items. Additional categories may be added if
approved by the City Engineer. Such written reduction requests may be made only once
every thirty (30) days and no reduction shall be authorized until such time as the City
Engineer has inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with the
City's standard specifications and details. All reductions shall be by written authorization
of the City Engineer. Substantially completed line items may be released up to ninety
percent (90%) of the established security proceeds per system. Upon completion and
conditional acceptance of all public improvements by the City Engineer, one hundred
percent (100%) of the security proceeds will be released. The remaining ten percent
(10%) of the approved estimated cost of the improvements or an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the subdivider's reasonable proven cost of completion, as approved by
the City Engineer, shall be held until final acceptance by the City Engineer following a
one year improvement assurance warranty.]
[DEL: 6.   If the proceeds are inadequate to pay the cost of the completion of the
improvements according to the City's standard specifications and details for whatever
reason, including previous reductions, the subdivider shall be responsible for the
deficiency and no building permits shall be issued in the subdivision until the
improvements are completed or, with City Council approval, a new, satisfactory security
has been executed and delivered to the City or other satisfactory arrangements have
been made to ensure completion of the remaining improvements.]
[DEL: 7.   The City's cost of administration incurred in obtaining the security, including attorney
fees and court ]costs[DEL:, shall be deducted from any security proceeds.]
[DEL: 8.   The subdivider shall guarantee all improvements installed against any damage
arising from any defect in design, construction, materials, or workmanship during the
warranty period and shall promptly repair the same upon notice from the City.]
[DEL: 9.   The subdivider shall agree to hold the City harmless from any and all liability which
may arise as a result of the improvements which are installed until such time as the City
certifies the improvements are complete and accepts the public improvements at the
end of the warranty period][ADD: in lieu of an obligation required by this title. For purposes of
this and other sections of this title, an improvement completion assurance is defined as
codified in Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-103 except that the acceptable forms of an][DEL: .]
   [ADD: A.] [DEL: B.   The ][ADD: improvement][DEL: guarantee agreement shall be for the full contract price and
be of one or more of the following types as prescribed by the City][ADD: completion
assurance limited by this code are]:

[DEL: 1.   An escrow agreement and account with a Federally insured bank or credit union
making proceeds available to the City in the case of the developer's default upon the
City presenting a sight draft at an office located within fifty (50) miles of the City;]
[DEL: 2.   A letter of credit agreement and irrevocable standby letter of credit with a Federally
insured bank or credit union, with proceeds available to the City in the case of the
developer's default upon the City presenting a signed statement in accordance with the
terms of the letter of credit at an office located within fifty (50) miles of the City; or]
[DEL: 3.   Cash or cashier's check, for deposit with the City in its accounts.]

[page 12]

[DEL: C.   Interest, if any, earned by the City on the deposited sum shall be retained by the
City as reimbursement and an offset for the cost of administering the improvement
guarantee.]
      [DEL: D.   The]
         [ADD: 1. A business check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City hall with funds immediately available to the city;]
         [ADD: 2. Cash;]
         [ADD: 3. A cash bond;]
         [ADD: 4. A cashier's check from a FDIC insured financial institution within 50 miles
            of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city upon default;]
         [ADD: 5. An irrevocable letter of credit from a FDIC insured financial institution within
            50 miles of Draper City Hall with funds immediately available to the city
            upon default; or]
         [ADD: 6. Other method of security as agreed upon by applicant, the City Engineer,
            and the City Attorney.]

[ADD: Each person who provides an improvement completion assurance must also enter into
an ]improvement [DEL: guarantee][ADD: completion assurance agreement with the city. An
improvement completion assurance ]agreement may [ADD: specify additional details for the
completion of work contemplated by the agreement.]


17-5-060: LANDSCAPING AND TREES:

A.   Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all residential subdivisions
within the City detailing the landscaping in all public and common areas of the
development and any other area required to be landscaped as a condition of
development approval. In addition, whenever the Planning Commission determines
there are areas within developments which warrant screening, buffering, or are of
sufficient size or visibility to warrant special treatment, the developer may be required to
provide a landscaping plan for such areas for review and approval by the City. All
landscaping plans shall indicate how maintenance of the landscaped areas will be
performed and by whom. All irrigation systems will conform to Draper City standards
and specifications. The plants or other landscaping materials that best serve the
intended functions shall be elected. Landscaping materials shall be appropriate for the
local environment, soil conditions, and availability of water. When required by the
Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission due to the nature or size of the proposed
landscaping, developers may be required to have the landscaping plans prepared and
stamped by a registered landscape architect.

   A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with the final plat
application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover within
park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required to support the
designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar deep watering
systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the landscaping plan.

[page 13]

B.   Street Trees:

1.   Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in Draper City shall
provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to reduce heat, dust, glare
and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and oxygenate the air; to reduce
road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil health; to mask undesirable views and
enhance pleasing views; to develop continuity among developments; and to generally
enhance the appearance of the City streets and promote a sense of civic pride and
vitality. A street tree plan, which is in accordance with Draper City standards and the
Draper City tree guide, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all
subdivisions. The subdivider is responsible for ensuring the installation of the required
number, species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan, prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.

2.   [DEL: Tree Bond: Security ][ADD: Improvement Completion Assurance: An improvement
completion assurance and accompanying agreement as defined by DCMC 17-4-070
and DCMC 17-4-075 is required ]for street tree installation [DEL: is required to be provided]
with all subdivision. The subdivider shall post an [DEL: escrow bond ][ADD: improvement completion
assurance ]with the City prior to recording any subdivision or phase of each subdivision.
The [DEL: bond ]amount shall be set by the City and shall be[DEL: set in an amount] sufficient to
cover the cost of providing trees for the individual lot, but shall not be less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per required tree.[DEL: Bonds ][ADD: Funds from an improvement
completion assurance ]will be held by the Draper City Community Development
Department, and shall not be released until a site inspection has verified the proper tree
installation has occurred, in accordance with the procedure outlined below:

   Total street tree and park strip landscaping [DEL: bond ]amounts shall be calculated by
multiplying the number of trees shown on the approved street tree and landscaping plan
by three hundred dollars ($300.00), and additionally adding in an estimated landscaping
and irrigation systems cost. This [DEL: bond ][ADD: amount ]shall be posted with each subdivision or
phase of a subdivision prior to the recording of any final or minor plat. During the
construction and occupancy of homes within a subdivision, subdivider would have two
(2) annual opportunities to reduce or refund a portion of the [DEL: bond amount.][ADD: improvement
completion assurance.] These reductions [DEL: of the street tree bond amount would][ADD: shall] be
linked to the installation of the street trees as described on the street tree planting plan.

   Annual opportunities for reduction [DEL: in the street tree bond ]shall occur once in the
spring, between April 1 and May 31, and again in the fall after September 15 but prior to
November 30. These dates are intended to avoid the planting of street trees during the
hottest times of the year for a higher establishment success rate.

   3.   Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb. In areas
where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and curb, street trees
shall be installed within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way. Street trees shall be
installed in accordance with the standards and specifications developed by the City
Tree Commission and adopted by the City Council. Irrigation systems shall be
professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic watering
system appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The developer

[page 14]

shall prepare a street tree plan for each approved residential subdivision which shall be
reviewed by the Draper City Community Development Department and forwarded to the
Draper City Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. A diversity of species is
encouraged to minimize the danger of losing an entire monospecific planting to blight,
insects or some other species specific condition. After installation by the subdivider,
individual homeowners are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of required
park strip street trees.
