                 REQUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

To:                        Mayor & City Council
From:                      Hazel Dunsmore
Date:                      07/12/2021
Subject:                   Resolution 21-21 Amending Sections 5080 – Performance Appraisal,
                           5100 – Employment Separation Procedures, 6040 – Computer Security
                           7030 – Overtime, Compensatory Time and On Call Pay, and Adopting
                           Section 10450- Motor Vehicle Records


Applicant Presentation:    N/A

Staff Presentation:        Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director

RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Resolution 21-21 amending Sections 5080, 5100, 6040 and 7030, and adopting Section
10450 of Draper City Personnel Policy

This is a proposed amendment to Sections 6040, 1045 of Draper City Personnel Policy to update the
following items:

Amend Section 5080 – Performance Appraisal
  • Clarify how the lump sum merit increase is awarded for employees who are at the maximum of
     the grade for their position.

Amend Section 5100 – Employment Separation Procedures
  • Update the policy to clarify when an employee who separates from the City will receive their
     final paycheck. Government agencies are not required to provide a final paycheck within two
     business days.

Amend Section 6040 – Computer Security
  • Add language stating that employees are prohibited from accessing security surveillance cameras
     for anything other than City business.

Amend Section 7030 – Overtime, Compensatory Time and On-Call Pay
  • Remove the requirement that comp time must be paid out at the end of the fiscal year.
  • Employees may still accrue a balance up to a maximum of 40 hours.

Adopt Section 10450 – Motor Vehicle Record Checks
  • This is a new policy explaining when the City will search an employee’s motor vehicle records
      and outlines what constitutes unacceptable driving.
The proposed changes have been reviewed by the City Attorney.

FISCAL IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
  • Proposed Resolution No. 21-21




                                                 2
        RESOLUTION NO. 21-21 OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
 SECTIONS 5080 – PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL, 5100 - EMPLOYEE SEPARATION, 6040 –
  COMPUTER SECURITY, 7030 – OVERTIME, COMPENSATORY TIME AND ON-CALL
 PAY, AND ADOPTING SECTION 10450 – MOTOR VEHICLE RECORD CHECKS, OF THE
                        PERSONNEL POLICY MANUAL.


         WHEREAS, The City Council, from time to time, reviews and adopts policies and procedures to
assist in the efficient utilization of scarce City resources and the fair and uniform application of requirements
and benefits to City employees; and

      WHEREAS, The City Council has reviewed the proposed amendments to the Personnel Policy
Manual and has determined the need to amend Sections 5080, 5100, 6040, 7030 and 10450; and

        WHEREAS, The City Council believes this change to the Personnel Policy Manual is in the best
interest of the employees of Draper City.

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Amendment. The Draper City Council does hereby approve the amendment to the
Personnel Policy to amend Sections 5080, 5100, 6040, 7030 and 10450 as attached hereto as Exhibit “A”.

         Section 2.     Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Resolution is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Resolution, and
all sections, parts and provisions of this Resolution shall be severable.

        Section 3.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, THIS THE 20th DAY OF JULY, 2021.


                                                        DRAPER CITY


                                                        _____________________________
                                                        Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Laura Oscarson, City Recorder




                                                       3
VOTE TAKEN:             YES   NO

Councilmember Green

Councilmember Lowery

Councilmember Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker




                        4
                                                       EXHIBIT A

                                       Section 5080 - PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL

5. Red Circle Employees. If a merit pay increase is associated with a performance appraisal and the employee’s pay rate is
   at or above the maximum salary level for the grade of the position, the employee may receive a lump sum bonus as
   approved by the City Council in the annual budget appropriation. The merit bonus will be divided into multiple payments
   throughout the budget year.


                                 Section 5100 – EMPLOYMENT SEPARATION PROCEDURES

5. Employees who are involuntarily terminated or who voluntarily terminate their employment will be paid in accordance with
   state law. Employees who are involuntarily terminated shall be paid any unpaid wages and earned accruals, except for
   sick leave, within two business days of the time of their separation. Employees who voluntarily terminate will be paid any
   unpaid wages and earned accruals, except for sick leave on the City’s next payday after their separation date.


                                          Section 6040 - COMPUTER SECURITY

    1. Integrity of Computer Resources

             A) Computer equipment, peripherals and software may not be altered or removed except as authorized by the
                IT Department. Opening the computer or adding internal or external equipment is prohibited except as
                authorized by the IT Department.

             B) Computer users must not limit others’ use or access to information resources by sending chain letters or
                excessive messages, printing excess copies of documents, files or data, or running grossly inefficient
                programs.

             C) Employees shall not install personal software on City computers for business or any other purpose.

             D) Employees shall not access computers, software, data, or other information without proper authorization.
                Employees shall not access the computer’s CMOS set-up.

             E) Employees may not develop or use programs, which disrupt computer resources, access restricted areas or
                files, or damage software or hardware.

             F) Employees are prohibited from accessing security surveillance cameras for anything other than City
                business.


                        Section 7030 – OVERTIME, COMPENSATORY TIME AND ON-CALL PAY

Compensatory Time

1. All full-time, non-exempt employees may choose to receive compensatory time in place of overtime. Compensatory time
   requires supervisor approval on the time card it was earned. Compensatory time is earned at a rate of one and one half
   times hours worked. Employees may accrue up to a maximum of 40 hours of compensatory time at any given time.

2. Compensatory time must be used or paid out by the end of the fiscal year in which it was earned. In limited
   circumstances, due to scheduling or business necessity, the City Manager may approve the carryover of a maximum of

                                                             5
    40 hours of accrued compensatory time for a period not to exceed 60 days. Compensatory time will be paid out at the
    employee’s regular pay rate.

3. The City reserves the right to pay any employee overtime compensation on their paycheck in lieu of providing
   compensatory time off for any workweek or work period or for any accrued compensatory time. Employees shall be
   compensated for unused and accrued compensatory time in accordance with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
   Act.

4. In the event that an employee is promoted to a higher paying position, or to an exempt position, compensatory hours will
   either be paid out at the prior rate converted back to overtime, or must be used within 60 days. All compensatory hours
   that are not used within 60 days will be converted back to overtime and paid out at the employee’s rate prior to the
   promotion.

5. Employees may request a payout of their compensatory time balance at any time by contacting the finance department.
   The payout will be calculated on the next closest paycheck by converting it back to overtime to comply with URS
   regulations. All applicable payroll taxes will be calculated.


                                                 * PROPOSED NEW POLICY *
                                     Section 10450 - Motor Vehicle Records (MVRs) Checks

Draper City expects all City employees and volunteers to operate vehicles used for City business in a safe and courteous manner
and in compliance with all applicable laws and city regulations. A motor vehicle records check shall be required to ensure
employees or volunteers are properly licensed and do not have a history of unsafe driving.

The purpose of this policy is to manage the risks associated with operating motor vehicles. Draper City is committed to protecting
the safety and health of employees and others, as well as safeguarding the assets of the City. Every employee or volunteer, who
may drive a City vehicle in the course of their duties, shall maintain a motor vehicle record (MVR) meeting the requirements set
forth in this policy.

Hiring Practices and MVRs
An evaluation of an applicant’s driver license status and MVR will be a factor in evaluating employment, promotion and volunteer
service eligibility for positions (seasonal, temporary, voluntary, part-time and full-time) that require driving a City vehicle or personal
vehicle on City business. Applicants selected to fill these positions must provide a signed consent form to conduct a background
check and MVR pull. To be eligible for hire or promotion:
     1) The applicant must have a valid Utah driver license or a valid license from another state and the ability to obtain a Utah
         driver license within 30 days of being hired.
     2) The applicant’s MVR must meet the criteria as an acceptable driving record as outlined below.
Vehicle Use
To be authorized to drive a City vehicle or personal vehicle on City business:
    1) An employee or volunteer must possess a valid Utah driver license for the type of vehicle he/she is operating.
    2) Employees shall complete the approved Utah Risk Management Association defensive driving course annually.
    3) Risk Management will ensure that the employee’s MVR meets the criteria of an acceptable driving record as outlined
        below.
    4) Risk Management will ensure there is an annual review of the driver’s license status of all employees who drive as part of
        their duties.
    5) Only Draper City employees or volunteers are authorized to drive a City vehicle. Contractors, vendors or any other
        private party are not authorized to use a City vehicle unless it is spelled out in a contract or agreement or authorized by
        Risk Management.
Unacceptable Driving Records
Criteria that may indicate an unacceptable driving record include, but are not limited to:

                                                                    6
    1) Any major violation within the last 3 years of conviction which includes:
           a. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs;
           b. Reckless driving;
           c. Driving while impaired;
           d. Homicide, manslaughter or assault arising out of the use of a vehicle;
           e. Making a false accident report;
           f. Driving with a suspended or revoked license;
           g. Attempting to elude law enforcement.
    2) Three (3) or more serious traffic violations in the past 3 years which include:
           a. Speeding;
           b. Failure to obey a traffic control device;
           c. Driving an unregistered vehicle;
           d. Street racing;
           e. Texting while driving.
    3) Two (2) or more at fault accidents in the past 3 years.
Employee Responsibilities
Employees who drive a Draper City vehicle or their personal vehicle on City business have the responsibility to notify their
supervisor immediately if their license has been revoked or suspended and shall not drive a City vehicle or personal vehicle on City
business until driving privileges have been established.

Employees shall notify their supervisor immediately when they have been convicted of any major violation outlined above.
Any employee in violation of these procedures shall be subject to departmental action, which could result in temporary or
permanent loss of vehicle driving privileges or discipline up to and including termination.
No action shall be taken regarding an employee’s driver license status if an employee is not required to drive for Draper City as
part of their job.




                                                                 7
