Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: November 16, 2021
Re: RL Smith – Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 0.92 acres located on the west side of 300 East, at approximately 13530 South 300 East . The property is currently zoned RA2 . The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to rezone the property from RA2 to R3 in order to subdivide the property.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their October 28, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 4-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.   The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.   The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.   The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.   There are not adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1510 11/9/2021 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 11/9/2021 Cover Memo