MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 1, 2021,
IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER,
UTAH

PRESENT:           Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by
                   Zoom), Tasha Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha
                   Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:      David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Todd
                    Hammond, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource
                    Director; Pat Evans, Police Lieutenant; Bret Millburn, Assistant
                    City Manager; Rhett Ogden, Recreation Director; Angela Fixmer,
                    Deputy City Recorder; Linda Peterson, Communications Director;
                    Clint Smith, Fire Chief; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director
_____________________________________________________________

Study Session

1.0   Oath of Office Ceremony for Draper City Firefighters

1.1   Clint Smith, Fire Chief, expressed appreciation for the ability to swear in new
      firefighters. They haven’t been able to hold these ceremonies during the
      pandemic. He thanked the families for their support. Chief Smith stated that
      seven new firefighters recently graduated from the Fire Academy in mid-April,
      at which time they had their badge pinning take place. Chief Smith first
      introduced the City’s newest engineer, Eric Neiderhauser, who is also a
      paramedic and has been with Draper since the department was created.

1.2   Angela Fixmer, Deputy City Recorder, administered the Oath of Office for Eric
      Neiderhauser. Mr. Neiderhauser’s family was then recognized.

1.3   Clint Smith, Fire Chief, introduced the other seven new firefighters.

1.4   Angela Fixmer, Deputy City Recorder, administered the Oath of Office for the
      seven, recently graduated firefighters. They then took a group photo with the
      Mayor and Council.
2.0   Discussion: 1300 East Roundabout – Joe Perrin, A-Trans Engineering


                                                                                   1
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
2.1   Joe Perrin presented the item as well as an aerial map of the subject property.
      He noted that this roundabout was overcapacity, as more cars were going
      through the intersection than a single lane could handle. He explained that if
      the existing roundabout was replaced with a traffic signal the problem would
      worsen. The City has looked at options for how to improve the flow. Options
      have included increasing capacity in the north-south direction, and potentially
      metering the southbound approach which provides artificial gaps. He
      explained that the real problem occurred in the morning and evening, but the
      roundabout works fine the rest of the day.

2.2   Mr. Perrin explained that when they looked at roundabouts the top concerns
      were safety, modeling, recommendation, and design. He explained that
      roundabouts are significantly safer than intersections because the number of
      conflict points is reduced. Roundabouts have fewer T-bone accidents, and this
      is true for pedestrians and bicyclists as well. Roundabouts also reduce speed.
      Mr. Perrin then presented a list of Federal Highways Administration (FHWA)
      roundabout safety facts.

2.3   Mr. Perrin explained that from the evaluation study it was determined that the
      northern leg is the primary leg because it is being loaded from three
      directions. The latest traffic information shows that the two- and three-lane
      roads on the other legs—east, west, and south legs—have enough capacity.
      However, the intersection itself does not have enough capacity. The northern
      leg needs to be a five-lane road.

2.4   Mr. Perrin presented a graph depicting existing and future flows. He explained
      that if they are going to do anything they might as well do it right so that it
      works for several more years. He presented a graph depicting all of the
      different scenarios and configurations that were assessed. The meters would
      be located 300 feet upstream, and they would install a red light ramp meter.
      Other cities have also accomplished this similar to a midblock pedestrian
      crossing, even though there are no pedestrians. Mr. Perrin said he did not like
      this option, though.

2.5   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if metering on the north leg would congest the
      traffic light above, to which Mr. Perrin said no. He explained that currently,
      the queue backs up from the roundabout to about halfway up the hill. The
      meter is coordinated with the signal, and he further explained how this


                                                                                   2
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
      worked. Mr. Perrin then discussed queuing as it currently occurs.            He
      explained that meters artificially created gaps to improve overall flow.

2.6   Councilmember T. Lowery was concerned about the metering inadvertently
      pushing the traffic somewhere else. Mr. Perrin explained that this was why a
      capacity improvement was recommended, as opposed to leaving it as a single-
      lane roundabout. Councilmember T. Lowery said that in this instance, the City
      would be doubling down on a roundabout that already isn’t used correctly by
      making it twice as big. Councilmember F. Lowry shared these same concerns.
      Mr. Perrin said because there are right-hand turn lanes in the north-south
      direction, they are just making those thru right-turn lanes as opposed to right-
      only lanes. The reason being, they would have to concentrate all of the thru
      traffic in one lane, versus using both lanes. He clarified that they would be
      adding a right-only lane only for the east-west direction. For the north-south
      direction, there are other enhancements to be made so that flows happen
      properly.

2.7   Mr. Perrin presented a summary of results for Level Of Service (LOS) and
      delays at the roundabout. He explained the necessity of looking at each of the
      approaches to ensure that everything balances out. The results presented 12
      options, and Mr. Perrin was suggesting option 11 from that list, as well as the
      signalized intersection as discussed. He then presented a graph depicting
      queue analyses, which included data on weighted average and seconds per
      vehicle. For this reason, they needed to look at each approach in the study
      and not just the intersection generally.

2.8   Councilmember Roberts asked Mr. Perrin to speak to bottling. He asked how
      confident Mr. Perrin was with these models and their ability to predict and be
      useful. Mr. Perrin said the modeling was based on Utah Department of
      Transportation (UDOT) and Federal modeling standards. Federal modeling
      uses synchro-modeling which is the primary traffic signal modeling tool that
      he used when conducting the study; he noted that these are very rigid
      guidelines. In addition, two primary roundabout models are accepted in the
      United States: Sidra and Rodel. Each state has adopted which one they want,
      and Sidra is by far the most adopted one in the United States. These are based
      on modeling that has been adopted to empirical data specific to American
      roundabouts.




                                                                                    3
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
2.9    Mr. Perrin presented his recommendation to create a multi-lane roundabout
       based on capacity need, delay and LOS, queue length, geometry, and safety.
       Images were included in his presentation to depict this recommendation. He
       presented a layout of what the multi-lane would look like.

2.10   Councilmember Roberts stated that to him it made sense intuitively to have
       the two lanes going straight through. He asked Mr. Perrin what pitfalls he
       identified in his analysis. Mr. Perrin said he was confident in the analysis.
       However, he explained that modeling was based on assumed reasonable
       drivers.    He acknowledged that using roundabouts properly was a
       generational learning curve. He explained that a signal will not increase
       capacity at the intersection, nor will it decrease queue lengths. However, if
       confusion is what the Council is trying to eliminate then it might be a policy
       issue instead.

2.11   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if metering would help eliminate some of that
       confusion. He explained that people get stalled in that roundabout because
       they don’t see a big enough gap; therefore, if there is a bigger gap he assumed
       they would not hesitate as much. Mr. Perrin said this is a good point. He
       explained that a multi-lane roundabout will increase capacity enough so that
       there are gaps for the other approach. The metering could be added later if
       for some reason there are still insufficient gaps.             Therefore, these
       improvements would be made in a phased approach. There was further
       discussion about roundabouts in England, which are typically metered.

2.12   There was continued discussion of the images and analysis presented by Mr.
       Perrin. Mayor Walker asked if the islands were built up or were striped islands.
       Mr. Perrin stated that they were raised, directional islands that helped with
       channeling traffic. The only exception was a striped island in between the two
       lanes for the north-south approach. Mr. Perrin noted there are currently 50
       multi-lane roundabouts in the State, so they were not unique. However, if the
       City found that this didn’t work in Draper then metering could be added later.

2.13   Mr. Dobbins stated that the City was ready to go to bid on the project. He
       stated that the City could also delay the project to allow for additional review.
       He said that according to UDOT, thru-turns were effective at moving traffic;
       they were safer and moved traffic more quickly, however, people hated them.
       The trade-off, though, is that cars won’t be stuck on the east-west lane as much


                                                                                      4
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
       as they currently are. He stated that there is no easy solution and not
       everyone is going to go home loving whatever option is chosen.

2.14   Councilmember F. Lowry said the options presented were worth exploring. He
       stated that they might have to make some minimal expansions on two of those
       corners.

2.15   Councilmember T. Lowery asked what would happen if there was a significant
       increase in traffic coming from one of these directions. Mr. Perrin explained
       the data that went into his analysis, noting that it was based on the 2040
       projected condition, not current conditions. Councilmember T. Lowery was
       also concerned about traffic coming from the west. She added that the City
       had also discussed trail expansion up behind IFA, and she was worried about
       pedestrians crossing this roundabout.

2.16   Councilmember Roberts stated that they needed to be forward-thinking on
       this issue. He said that if this is a lower risk incremental bet, then he supports
       the analysis present. However, he still needs to understand it better. There
       was a subsequent discussion on Mr. Perrin’s analysis and presentation. The
       Council came to a consensus about needing additional time to study this issue.

3.0    Council/Manager Reports

3.1    Councilmember Roberts discussed the equestrian center (Andy Ballard Arena).
       He explained that there has been some concern brought up about the lighting
       at the arena. There have been instances where the lights have been left on at
       night because the staff hasn’t been able to keep the box secured, in addition
       to the sprinkling system. Councilmember Roberts asked if as a City they could
       take a look at what the cost would be to install wi-fi-controlled lighting systems
       so that they could be controlled remotely.

       Councilmember Roberts also discussed the Draper Moto Challenge that is
       being planned for August 1st. Additionally, several events are being planned
       by the Arena Board, as well as Draper Days. He presented the question of
       whether or not an express bill pay system could be used for Draper City events
       to improve efficiency. He also noted that the Wadsworth Company has
       donated a lot of time in helping to repair the arena. He expressed appreciation
       for their efforts in helping keep the arena up to speed.


                                                                                       5
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1   Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager, offered an opening thought on the
      purpose of Memorial Day. The audience then observed a moment of silence.

2.2   Jake Sorensen, IT Network Administrator, led the audience in reciting the
      Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0   Public Comments

3.1   There were no public comments.

**    7:06 p.m. Councilmember Green joined the meeting virtually.

4.0   Consent Items
      a. Approval of the May 4, 2021, and May 18, 2021, City Council Meeting
         Minutes

4.1   Councilmember T. Lowery    moved to approve the Consent Items.
      Councilmember Vawdrey seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
      and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1490, Ordinance #1491, an ordinance approving
      Land Use Map and Development Agreement for approximately 9.81 Acres of
      property located at approximately 12197 South 300 East within Draper City.

5.1   Maryann Pickering presented the staff report, noting that it was heard at the
      last meeting but tabled so that the applicant could gather additional
      information. The applicant has since submitted a development agreement
      and that has since been provided in the packet for tonight’s meeting. This
      property has historically been used for farming since 1978 when the City was
      incorporated. There have been previous rezone requests and the most recent

                                                                                 6
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
      one was made last fall. The application was for commercial zoning and
      concerns were expressed from the public; therefore, the applicant withdrew.
      They have since come back with this new rezone request. She presented an
      aerial map of the subject property. The current land use designation is
      neighborhood commercial. The request is to change it to residential high
      density to conform with the proposed zoning. Right now it is zoned A-5, which
      is a five-acre minimum lot size. The request is to change it to RM-2 which
      would allow up to 12 dwelling units per acre. She presented photos of the site.
      A development agreement has been proposed even though the zoning would
      allow up to 12 dwelling units per acre. The applicant has proposed to limit the
      property to a maximum of 63 single-family units; no multi-family would be
      allowed. There are minimum setbacks established in the development
      agreement because the RM-2 zone doesn’t have any setbacks. Staff felt it
      would be appropriate that those setbacks would be included. When the
      project comes in, should it come in as a subdivision, those roads would need
      to comply with the current City code. The Planning Commission did forward a
      negative recommendation at their meeting on May 13 with a 4-to-1 vote, but
      their current suggestion was that a development agreement be entered into
      with the applicant to limit the number of units and that proposal was in front
      of the Council tonight.

5.2   Councilmember Green asked what other deviations were being granted in the
      development agreement. Ms. Pickering said there were no deviations, staff
      just established a minimum setback. The developer would still have to comply
      with all of the requirements in the RM-2 zone, including parking for each unit.

5.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked how this compared to surrounding
      developments.

5.4   Ms. Pickering said it would be a smaller lot development than what was located
      to the north. She stated that the northern development was zoned RA-2, which
      were half-acre minimum sized lots. The Day Dairy development was located
      to the east, which had townhomes. Apartments were located to the west.

5.5   Councilmember Roberts asked about a brief history of the subject property in
      terms of what else has been proposed. Ms. Pickering stated that the previous
      request was for 75 residential units and it was made three years ago.




                                                                                   7
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
5.6    Jen Jastremsky, Senior Planner, concurred with Ms. Pickering’s recollection.
       She added that the lot sizes in the previous proposal were 4,000 square feet.
       That particular request also received a negative recommendation from the
       Planning Commission; however, the applicant at the time was requesting
       several deviations to the code. The request never went forward to the Council.



5.7    Councilmember Roberts asked if it was fair to say that this proposal was the
       least dense proposal for the subject property that has come forward over the
       last four years. Ms. Jastremsky answered affirmatively.

5.8    Councilmember T. Lowery asked if staff felt this would be the least impactful
       type of development project. Ms. Pickering stated that staff would still need
       to do complete traffic studies. However, the impact would be less than
       commercial development.

5.9    Councilmember F. Lowry asked if a traffic study came back and showed that
       the project should be less than 63 total units. He wondered how such analysis
       would affect the proposed development agreement.

5.10   David Dobbins, City Manager, explained that the traffic study would indicate
       what off-site improvements would need to be made to mitigate those
       concerns. It would not state whether or not the development should move
       forward. He cited one of the area charter school projects as an example of this
       happening. Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the development agreement
       stated that those improvements would be required to be made. Mr. Dobbins
       stated that the regular code process would take place, which would include a
       traffic study.

5.11   Mike Barker, City Attorney, explained that the development agreement stated
       that the developer was not guaranteed the full 63 units; this was just a
       maximum number. Depending on the layout of the site plan there may not be
       all 63 units.

5.12   Mr. Dobbins explained that having one of the roads connect to the roundabout
       would improve traffic.

5.13   Councilmember T. Lowery stated that she would like to understand Mr.
       Dobbins’s point better and asked staff to elaborate further.

                                                                                    8
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
5.14   Maryann Pickering presented an aerial map of the subject property. She
       explained that the development would connect to the end of the road at 12230
       South where the Day Dairy development is located. The road would then curve
       up and meet the roundabout. The roundabout would then have its four
       points. She stated that this was shown on the Master Transportation Plan.

5.16   Mr. Dobbins explained that from an engineering standpoint, the City’s
       engineers would like to see the road connected for the overall improvement
       of the area. He added that the tradeoff would have been a charter school,
       which would have had a much more significant impact than 63 residential
       units.

5.17   Councilmember F. Lowry asked that with the road going through, the area
       south could be commercial. He asked if the proposed development
       agreement contemplated commercial if the developer wanted to put in
       commercial development on the south end of the parcel.

5.18   Mr. Dobbins stated that this was not specifically stated in the development
       agreement. However, if that were an option, the proposal would come
       forward for an amendment. The area would need to be rezoned if the
       developer wanted to include commercial development.

5.20   Councilmember F. Lowry stated that this proposal seemed to have the most
       minimal impact on the area versus other projects that had previously been
       presented to the City for consideration.

5.21   Councilmember Roberts asked about the setbacks on the northern portion of
       the property. He wanted to measure how close the lots would be based on
       code requirements.

5.22   Maryann Pickering stated that the setbacks were based on the building code
       in the RM-2 zone. Therefore, there were no specific setbacks in that zone.
       However, staff has suggested that the rear yard setbacks be 15 feet and the
       front yard setbacks are 20 feet for all of the properties. Side yard setbacks
       would be five feet. If homes are sided on a collector street or a private interior
       street, setbacks would be increased so that homes would not be right on the
       street.


                                                                                       9
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
5.23   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if this was a larger buffer than normal. Ms.
       Pickering answered affirmatively.

5.24   Mayor Troy K. Walker asked if there were any additional questions for staff.
       There were none.

5.25   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

5.26   Cameron Nelson, resident, stated that he lived north of the proposed
       development area. He explained that his family was greatly impacted by the
       decisions made with this property. When he purchased his property 15 years
       ago and built his dream home on a half-acre, no road went through. He said
       he appreciated the Council for protecting the area and the developer for
       listening to what residents had to say about the area. His only concern as a
       homeowner in the area as if this was approved and the zone was changed to
       RM-2, was there any way outside of coming back to the City Council of the
       developer circumventing what was stated within the development agreement.
       He asked if the development agreement transferred with the said property,
       should it be sold to another entity. He agreed that this was the least impactful
       project that had come forward. He stated that this would be a great asset to
       Draper City.

5.27   Jeff Hansen, resident, stated that he lived north of the proposed development
       area. Mr. Hansen stated that he had also participated in several meetings
       where this property was being discussed. He stated that his family was also
       greatly impacted by the Council’s decision. Mr. Hansen spoke to the Ivory
       Homes development across the street from his property. He discussed the
       importance of establishing trust with the developer to ensure that they do
       what they say they are going to do. He agreed that the proposal presented
       tonight was the least impactful to the area. He wanted to avoid any possible
       amendments to the development agreement.

5.28   Tyler Bodrero, applicant, confirmed the history that was provided regarding
       various proposals that have come forward in the past. He stated that they
       listened to the residents, and there was a lot of discussion about traffic impact.
       Mr. Bodrero explained that he worked with staff to create a project that
       considered residents’ concerns so that they could do a project that would
       benefit the City. He stated that they would do everything to meet the code


                                                                                      10
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
       requirements during the subdivision process, which would come before the
       Planning Commission and City Council.

5.29   Councilmember Roberts asked Mr. Bodrero if he was seeking a maximum of
       63 lots, to which Mr. Bodrero said that was correct. Councilmember Roberts
       asked if Mr. Bodrero planned on building all 63 lots. Mr. Bodrero stated that
       the latest renditions were showing less than that amount at closer to 53-55
       lots. However, they had not gone through the entire design process yet. He
       explained that the approach was not how many lots they could get, but rather
       how they could develop a project that best fits the area with the constraints
       outlined by staff. Councilmember Roberts asked if Mr. Bodrero could provide
       a sense of what the building product might look like. Mr. Bodrero stated that
       it was too early to discuss those details. However, the developer had other
       projects in the area so the product would match other subdivisions.

5.30   Councilmember T. Lowery echoed the comments from the residents. She
       stated that the applicant listened to their feedback, for which she expressed
       appreciation. The proposed development would serve as a buffer between
       commercial and larger lots.

5.31   Councilmember F. Lowry agreed and thanked the applicant for listening. He
       also thanked the residents for voicing their thoughts as well.

5.32   Mr. Barker explained that the development agreement would be recorded
       against the land. Therefore, if the property gets sold, the development
       agreement would remain in place.

5.33   Mayor Troy K. Walker reiterated that the development agreement could not
       be altered without City Council review and approval.

5.34   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

5.35   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1490, Ordinance
       #1491, an ordinance approving Land Use Map and Development Agreement
       for approximately 9.81 Acres of property located at approximately 12197
       South 300 East within Draper City. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the
       motion.




                                                                                 11
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
5.36   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0    Action Item: Resolution #21-31, declaring support for the Locally Preferred
       Alternative for the Point of the Mountain Transit Project.

6.1    Mayor Troy K. Walker stated that he was on the Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
       Advisory Board. He explained that those familiar with the area were familiar
       with the bottleneck at the area where the freeway goes over the point at the
       Point of the Mountain. There were not very many areas to expand the freeway.
       With development taking place at the Point of the Mountain, it was UTA’s goal
       to provide a way for people to go to work there without having to drive.
       FrontRunner got an infusion of funding from the legislature this year to help
       create double tracking in certain strategic areas. He noted that there was a
       ribbon-cutting at the Vineyard Station last week. He noted that the Vineyard
       area is zoned for 20,000 residential units, which was an excess of 40,000
       people that will be in proximity to that FrontRunner Station. He explained that
       the Locally Preferred Alternative would be significantly different than Light
       Rail. He noted that the first public train service was in 1827 and the first bus
       service was in 1895, so the bus was 67 years newer technologically speaking.

       The project's purpose was to develop high capacity service between Salt Lake
       County and northern Utah County and to connect into existing and emerging
       development areas. The Steering Committee has based its recommendation
       on cost, construction and operational complexity, and timing and
       implementation. He explained that Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) was half the cost
       of light rail. Light rail cost half of a billion dollars to build. UTA owned the right-
       of-way, so it did not need to acquire land; therefore, that dollar mark only
       accounted for the cost of construction. He explained that BRT was a lot easier
       to construct and maintain, and was less restrictive in terms of the areas that it
       could reach.

       Mayor Walker then presented the Preferred Alternative map, which ran from
       the FrontRunner Station at the Point of the Mountain to the Highline City
       Center Area. Two stations stop inside the Point. BRT was the only mode that
       allowed for two stations, whereas light rail would have one because of the
       angle the train needs to cross over the freeway. The map also showed access
       down into Lehi’s FrontRunner Station. He explained that this Preferred
       Alternative map was 98% within UTA’s existing rights-of-way. Mayor Walker

                                                                                           12
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
      then presented images of gold-standard BRTs. He explained that some of the
      benefits of BRTs included 1) dedicated guideway for transit priority; 2) high-
      quality station amenities and urban design, and 3) bus vehicle interiors mimic
      the rail look and feel.

      Mayor Walker presented the timeline for LPA approval and adoption. He
      explained that by Spring 2023, the BRT will reach near completion of
      environmental. The steps in that process would include: 1) UTA preparing a
      capital project plan; 2) MPO amending RTP for LPA; 3) UTA Local Advisory
      Council approving the LPA, and 4) UTA Board of Trustees adopting the LPA.
      Mayor Walker noted that Lehi adopted the Locally Preferred Alternative last
      week. He then presented a breakdown of the funding plan, as follows:

         •   $750,000 2020 Legislative appropriation – Transit Transportation
             Investment Fund (TTIF)
         •   $5 million 2021 Legislative appropriation – TTIF
         •   $500,000 UTA 2021 Funds
         •   $2 million Surface Transportation Block Grant Program (STBG) Funds –
             Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Trans Com recommended

      Mayor Walker discussed the importance of getting this plan in place ahead of
      the growth so that regionally they are prepared with the infrastructure
      necessary to support growth as it takes place. He stated that Mayor Johnson
      of Lehi requested that, should Draper City adopt the Resolution supporting the
      Locally Preferred Alternative, language be added to support the building of this
      line down to 2100 North in Lehi. He asked if the Council had any questions.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked for clarification on the addition to the
      Resolution requested by Lehi. Mayor Walker restated the request and its
      purpose.

6.3   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the bridge that crosses over will allow for
      bicycle and pedestrian traffic.     Mayor Walker answered affirmatively.
      Councilmember T. Lowery stated that having bicycle and pedestrian access is
      important to residents. Mayor Walker explained that the Point’s river-to-range
      includes the concept to be able to connect safely. Councilmember T. Lowery
      asked if this needed to be added, to which Mayor Walker answered
      affirmatively.


                                                                                   13
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
6.4    Councilmember Roberts stated that he endorsed the Locally Preferred
       Alternative enthusiastically. He stated that this was a good plan at a good cost
       and would have minimal impact on Draper’s neighborhoods. He asked how
       easy it would be to convert to light rail in the future should growth warrant an
       expansion.

6.5    Patti Garver, UTA Project Manager for the Point-of-the-Mountain Transit Study,
       stated that light rail has a larger capacity. If growth reached a point where
       more capacity was needed, then light rail would make sense. However, it
       would not be possible to have two stations because a long retaining wall would
       be needed. Generally, light rail would be more difficult and very expensive.

6.6    Councilmember Roberts asked about the flexibility to build spokes off of this
       current plan. He asked if the long-term plan was to also have the BRT serve
       east and west areas as well.

6.7    Ms. Garver stated that there was another project that went south into the
       central corridor, reaching Provo. At this point, they have not assessed options
       moving east and west. However, Utah County and the Mountainland
       Association of Governments were interested in looking to the west. Therefore,
       that would be the next area they would look at.

6.8    Mayor Troy K. Walker added that these vehicles were also clean energy, using
       natural gas. They could also be a hybrid vehicle that also utilized electricity.
       Ms. Garver added that once a BRT was put in, light rail would not be
       considered.

6.9    Councilmember F. Lowry asked to discuss bicycle and pedestrian access again.

6.10   Ms. Garver explained that at this point, UTA wants to accommodate a
       pedestrian and bike trail. However, a trail would be a separate project
       because, at this point, a trail has not been incorporated into the Locally
       Preferred Alternative Plan. Councilmember F. Lowry stated that a trail would
       make sense, especially when discussing the plan being a walkable area. He
       expressed concerns that a trail was not included. Ms. Garver stated a trail
       would be a part of the bridge. She noted that the rail trail was located on the
       east side. Councilmember F. Lowry stated that access was needed to reach
       that trail on the east side. Ms. Garver stated that funding for a trail has not
       been identified.

                                                                                    14
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
6.11   Councilmember Roberts asked if would be possible to incorporate a trail into
       the plan before a decision is made.

6.12   Councilmember T. Lowery expressed the concern that if the plan was adopted
       without the trail would it ever actually happen. Councilmember F. Lowry
       agreed and asked if this could be a part of the Resolution.

6.13   Mayor Troy K. Walker stated that the Resolution is to adopt the Locally
       Preferred Alternative. He stated that the Committee recognized the trail as
       being a significant issue. He said he anticipates significant support for a trail,
       but to Ms. Garver’s point, acknowledged that funding was a component that
       still needs to be determined. Councilmember F. Lowry stated that if a trail was
       included in the Resolution, it would provide more leverage to find the money
       for it. Councilmember T. Lowery added that it establishes a priority. Ms.
       Garver and Mayor Walker agreed that the trail could be included in the motion
       passing the Resolution to offer strong encouragement in that direction.

6.14   Additional photos were shown and discussed. Councilmember F. Lowry asked
       about adding consideration for a stop on 2100 North. He questioned if this
       would require adding another bridge going back over the freeway to the
       FrontRunner Station. Ms. Garver stated that it would cross on Triumph
       Boulevard.

6.15   Mayor Walker again stressed the importance of putting transit infrastructure
       in place ahead of residential growth. He cited transit projects taking place in
       Ogden to illustrate this point.

6.16   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to adopt Resolution #21-31, declaring
       support for the Locally Preferred Alternative for the Point of the Mountain
       Transit Project, adding support for extending the line to 2100 North in Lehi, as
       well as encouraging the incorporation of a bike and pedestrian access on the
       bridge from the Point over to the right-of-way. Councilmember T. Lowery
       seconded the motion.

6.17   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.




                                                                                      15
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
7.0   Public Hearing: approving Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Tentative Budget prior to its
      adoption.

7.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, presented this item. He explained that the
      proposed Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Tentative Budget was presented on May 4th,
      2021, at which time it was also adopted by the Council. The budget has been
      available for the public to review. It has been online on the City’s website, and
      a hard copy has been available at the City’s offices. The budget is $105 million
      to include capital and operational projects. The largest amount of those funds
      represents the general operations of the General Fund, which is a $35 million
      budget for the next fiscal year. Of that $35 million, $29 million (82%) comes
      from taxes. At this time, the City has not received its certified tax rate;
      therefore, the staff is assuming that the rate will be the same as what has been
      built into the new growth. The tentative budget also reflects a 5% increased
      salary adjustment, breaking down to 2% COLA and 3% merit. The Public Safety
      Department has received its respective plans. There are no new employee
      positions included in this budget. The enterprise budgets reflect a collective
      budget of $16.27 million. There has been a rate reduction of 22%, or $2 per
      month, for the stormwater, which went into effect this month (June 2021). No
      other rate increases are built into the enterprise funds. Additionally, there are
      two internal service funds. The City has approximately $29 million in its capital
      improvement projects fund.

7.2   Mr. Dobbins, noted that this item is a public hearing.

7.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. There were no public comments.
      Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

8.0   Action Item: Ordinance #1492, enacting a Temporary Land Use Regulations
      that suspends provisions of the Draper City Municipal Code regarding
      temporary Signage.

8.1   Jen Jastremsky, Senior Planner, presented this item. She explained that last
      year after COVID-19 hit and it became apparent that stores would be closing,
      the City enacted a few temporary land use regulations to help businesses. One
      of those regulations was to suspend posting periods for temporary signage.
      Another one was to waive late fees on businesses. During winter, the City
      allowed for temporary tents so that restaurants could increase their dining
      areas. This item is for another temporary land use regulation on temporary

                                                                                    16
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
       signage for businesses that are now reopening with expanded capacity and is
       a step towards recovery from the pandemic. She presented language from
       City Code that would be temporarily waived during this period.

8.2    Councilmember T. Lowery asked if local businesses appreciate this waiver. Ms.
       Jastremsky said she believed so. She further explained that while staff did not
       count numbers, per se, they did do a campaign when adopting temporary land
       use regulations to inform businesses that as a City they were not requiring
       permits and were not tied to set posting periods, and businesses have been
       using them.

8.3    Councilmember F. Lowry said this was a good idea. He asked if after the six
       months expire, how difficult will it be to enforce original code regulations. Ms.
       Jastremsky stated that staff will have to inform businesses of those regulations
       once the six months end. Councilmember F. Lowry stated that as a City they
       needed to do everything they could to help businesses.

8.4    Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. There were no public comments.
       Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

8.5    Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Councilmember Vawdrey
       seconded the motion.

8.6    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0    Recess to a Redevelopment Agency meeting.

9.1    Councilmember Vawdrey moved to recess to a Redevelopment Agency
       Meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery seconded the motion.

9.2    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Roberts moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T.
       Lowery seconded the motion.


                                                                                     17
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
10.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts,
       and Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 8:11 p.m.




                                                                                 18
Draper City Council DRAFT Minutes
