Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: December 14, 2021
Re: 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 0.86 acres located on the north side of Pioneer Rd., at approximately 1521 E. Pioneer Rd. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to change the zoning designation from RA1 to R3 to allow for future subdivision of the property.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their November 18, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1514 12/3/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 12/3/2021 Cover Memo