                               Development Review Committee
                                    1020 East Pioneer Road
                                      Draper, UT 84020
                                     September 29, 2021

To:             Draper City Planning Commission
                Business Date: October 14, 2021

From:           Development Review Committee

Prepared By: Todd A. Draper, Planner III
             Planning Division
             Community Development Department
             801-576-6335, todd.draper@draperutah.gov

Re:     7th East Office Building – Zoning Map Amendment Request
        Application No.: TEXTMAP-0139-2021
        Applicant:         Ben Clifford representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea
                           Fitzgerald Trust
        Project Location: 12071 S 700 E
        Current Zoning: RA1 (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 ft² minimum lot size) Zone
        Acreage:           1.0 Acres (Approximately 43,560 ft2)
        Request:           Request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment in the RA1
                           zone regarding changing the Zoning Map from RA1 to CN
                           (Neighborhood Commercial).



BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY

This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately
1.0 acres located on the east side of 700 E, at approximately 12071 S 700 E (Exhibit C). The
property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map
Amendment be approved to rezone the property from the RA1 zoning designation to the
CN zoning designation.

The property is one acre in size and consists of a single parcel (Exhibit B). The single family
home currently on the property was built in approximately 1948.




7th East Office Building                                          App. # TEXTMAP-0139-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   1
ANALYSIS

General Plan and Zoning. The Land Use Map of the General Plan calls for the Neighborhood
Commercial land use designation for the subject property (Exhibit D). This category is
characterized as follows:




The property has been assigned the RA1 zoning classification, supporting approximately
one dwelling unit per acre (Exhibit E). According to Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC)
Section 9-8-020 the purpose of the RA1 zone is to “foster low density development with little
impact on its surroundings and municipal services; to generally preserve the character of the
city's semirural areas; and to promote and preserve conditions favorable to large lot family life,
including the keeping of limited numbers of animals and fowl. The predominant use in these
zones is intended to be detached single-family dwellings, protected from encroachment by
commercial and industrial uses.” The RA1 zoning surrounds the subject property on the
north, east, and west. A small section of the property does abut CN zoning to the north.
Across 12000 S. Street to the south is the RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 ft² minimum
lot size) zone.

Zoning Map Amendment. The proposal to zone the property for commercial use is in line
with the general plan land use map designation of neighborhood commercial. The current
RA1 zoning designation is not consistent with the general plan land use map for the subject



7th East Office Building                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0139-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    2
property. The area along 700 East is generally in transition at this time and other zoning
changes pertaining to commercial development have recently been approved by the City
Council along this transportation corridor. The applicant is looking to rezone the entire
property for potential commercial office buildings (Exhibit F).

Criteria For Approval. A Zoning Map Amendment is a matter committed to the legislative
discretion of the City Council and is not controlled by any one standard. However, in
making a recommendation to the City Council, the Planning Commission should consider
the following factors in Section 9-5-060(E) of the DCMC:

        1. Map Amendments:
            a. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies
               of the city's general plan;
            b. Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
               existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
            c. Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any
               applicable overlay zone;
            d. The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect adjacent
               property; and
            e. The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject property,
               including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and
               fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
               wastewater and refuse collection.



REVIEWS

Planning Division Review. The Draper City Planning Division has completed their review of
the Zoning Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be
found in Exhibit A.

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review. The Draper City Engineering and Public
Works Divisions have completed their reviews of the Zoning Map Amendment submission.
Comments from these divisions, if any, can be found in Exhibit A.

GIS Division Review. The Draper City GIS Division has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.

Fire Division Review. The Draper City Fire Marshal has completed their review of the Zoning
Map Amendment submission. Comments from this division, if any, can be found in Exhibit
A.




7th East Office Building                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0139-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                     3
Noticing. Notice has been properly issued in the manner outlined in the City and State
Codes.



STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission review the request, receive public
comment, and make a recommendation to the City Council based on the findings listed
below and the criteria for approval, or denial, as listed within the staff report.

The findings for a positive recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of
                the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable
                overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including,
                but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire
                protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and
                wastewater and refuse collection.

The findings for a negative recommendation are as follows:

        1.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and
                policies of the city's general plan;
        2.      The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of
                existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
        3.      The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any
                applicable overlay zone;
        4.      The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
        5.      Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property,
                including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police
                and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies,
                and wastewater and refuse collection.




7th East Office Building                                           App. # TEXTMAP-0139-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                    4
MODEL MOTIONS

Sample Motion for Approval – I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the 7th East Office Building Zoning Map Amendment request, as requested
by Ben Clifford representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea Fitzgerald Trust, application
TEXTMAP-0139-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated September 29, 2021.

Sample Motion for Modified Approval– I move that we forward a positive recommendation
to the City Council for the 7th East Office Building Zoning Map Amendment request, as
requested by Ben Clifford representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea Fitzgerald Trust,
application TEXTMAP-0139-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed
in the Staff Report dated September 29, 2021, and as modified by the findings and
conditions below:

        1.      List any additional findings and conditions…

Sample Motion for Denial – I move that we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the 7th East Office Building Zoning Map Amendment request, as requested by
Ben Clifford representing Phillip Matthews and the Maydea Fitzgerald Trust, application
TEXTMAP-0139-2021, based on the findings and subject to the conditions listed in the Staff
Report dated September 29, 2021.




7th East Office Building                                       App. # TEXTMAP-0139-2021
Zoning Map Amendment Request                   5
                                      EXHIBIT A
                                 DEPARTMENT REVIEWS

REVIEWS ARE NOT MEANT TO BE AN ALL INCLUSIVE LIST OF POSSIBLE COMMENTS OR
CONDITIONS.



Planning Division Review.

       1.     No Additional Comments

Engineering and Public Works Divisions Review.

       We have reviewed the subject zone map amendment application, proposing 1 acres
       to be zoned from RA1 to CN in accordance with the provisions of Section 9-5-060(E)
       of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC). We speak primarily to the adequacy of
       facilities and services intended to serve the subject property. In making an
       amendment, the City Council should consider the following factors. Accordingly, the
       following comments are recommended for your consideration:

       1.     The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the subject
              property, including but not limited to roadways, parks and recreation
              facilities, police and fire protection, schools, storm water drainage systems,
              water supplies, and waste water and refuse collection;

       Other than noted below, we are not aware of any inadequacies of the facilities
       intended to serve this property.

       1.     The increase in density from one residential unit per acre zoning to
              community commercial zoning constitutes significant traffic increase to and
              from the subject area. One single family residential structure constitutes up
              to nine daily trips and two peak hour trips, based on industry standard
              vehicle trip tables. Based on use tables, there are high traffic uses permitted
              in the zone. This increase in traffic would be limited to 700 East, an arterial
              street designed to accommodate the greatest volume of traffic in the city.
              Traffic issues in the area are at peak travel times, as well as school beginning
              and ending times in the area. Expansion of 700 East in the area is a future
              Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) project.

       2.     Connectivity with this lot to a public right-of-way is to 700 East, an arterial
              street owned by UDOT. Specific access locations will be evaluated with any
              site plan or subdivision submittal. Access locations will be required to meet
              Draper City Standards as outlined in our Master Transportation Plan and
               according to UDOT standards. A Traffic Impact Study may be required with a
               site plan or subdivision application based on the proposed use and projected
               traffic volume.

       3.      There are no existing storm drainage facilities available to the subject area.
               Provisions for onsite storm drainage will need to be addressed with any
               subdivision or site plan application, and shall comply with the provisions of
               the development requirements within the Draper City Municipal Code.

       4.      Sanitary sewer facilities will be provided by South Valley Sewer District. Any
               subdivision application will require a commitment to serve from the Sewer
               District that facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

       5.      Drinking water facilities will be provided by WaterPro. Any subdivision
               application will require a commitment to serve from the WaterPro that
               facilities are adequate to provide service for the proposed uses.

GIS Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments Provided


Fire Division Review.

       1.      No additional Comments Provided
                                     EXHIBIT B
                                 LEGAL DESCRIPTION

Parcel 28291550160000 Legal description

BEG 297 FT W FR THE SE COR OF LOT 3, BLK 28, DRAPERVILLE; N 183.3 FT; E 243 FT; N 113.7
FT; E 54 FT; S 193 FT; W 74 FT; S 20.7 FT; W 113 FT; S 83.3 FT; W 110 FT TO BEG. 5416-0045
6548-2126
 EXHIBIT C
AERIAL MAP
  EXHIBIT D
LAND USE MAP
 EXHIBIT E
ZONING MAP
            EXHIBIT F
APPLICANTS APPLICATION RESPONSES
