Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: August 3, 2021
Re: City Initiated 2021 Bulk Text Amendment #1 Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Text Amendment that includes multiple changes to Titles 9 and 17 of the DCMC including changes to definitions, permitted use reviews, conditional use permits, site plan reviews, landscaping, addressing, appeals, land use buffers, parking, lot and yard requirements, swimming pools, development standards, and other typographical and de minimis corrections.
The Planning Commission heard this item at their July 8, 2021 meeting and on a 5-0 vote in favor, forwarded a positive recommendation on the application with an additional recommendation to standardize the timeframe for appeals to be consistent across the code. The recommended changes and other de minimus corrections have been made to the text in the provided ordinance.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
5. The proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
3. The proposed amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is not sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
4. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and does not represent an overall community benefit; and
5. The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance #1498 7/28/2021 Cover Memo P.C. Staff Report 7/28/2021 Cover Memo