Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Maryann Pickering, AICP
CC:  Date: November 16, 2021
Re: Kum & Go Store #2500 Text Amendment Request Comments: This item was continued from the November 9, 2021 City Council meeting so additional information regarding existing signs along Bangerter Highway could be provided to the City Council.  Below is the summary of the existing signs near the subject site.
Bangerter Ridge Business Park.  The existing multi tenant sign is 10 feet wide by 20 feet tall.  It has the name of the business park and space for up to 12 tenants.
Hilton Homewood Suites.  An illuminated pylon sign was approved in 2016.  The sign is for the hotel user only and is just over 10.5 feet wide and it is 30 feet tall.  The DPMU-CSD (Draper Pointed Mixed Use Commercial Special District) would have allowed this sign to be 40 feet tall.
Maverik.  This pole sign is a legal nonconforming sign that was originally built for the Exxon/Common Cents user.  The sign is just over six feet wide (6'3") and is 20 feet tall.  Maverik did not alter the height or size of the sign and only changed the face when they moved to this location.
Rise Services (formerly Lane Myers).  This sign was approved in 2011 and is just over 14 feet wide (14' 3-3/4") wide and 40 feet tall.  The sign was originally designed for Lane Myers Construction.  It is now a sign for Rise Services who has taken over the building.
Plans of the approved signs are included as well as the Planning  Commission staff report from October 14, 2021. The findings are as follows: For approval:
a.   The amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment furthers the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e. The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  T he proposed text amendment implements best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.
For denial:
a.  The amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
b.  The amendment does not further the specific purpose statements of the zoning ordinance;
c.  The amendment is not appropriate given the context of the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the zoning ordinance;
d.  The amendment may create a conflict with any other section or part of this title or the general plan;
e.  The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined may be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and represents an overall community benefit; and
f.  The proposed text amendment does not implement best current, professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ordinance 1507 (Zoning Text Amendment) 11/10/2021 Ordinance Bangerter Ridge 11/10/2021 Backup Material Hilton Homewood Suites 11/10/2021 Backup Material Maverik (formerly Exxon/Common Cents) 11/10/2021 Backup Material Rise Services (formerly Lane Myers) 11/10/2021 Backup Material PC Staff Report 11/10/2021 Backup Material