Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Todd A. Draper
CC:  Date: November 16, 2021
Re: Rockwell Station Zoning Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 1.23 acres located at the southeast corner of the intersection of 12100 S. and 700 E., at approximately 696 E 12100 S and 12150 S. 700 E. The property is currently zoned RA1. The applicant is requesting that a Zoning Map Amendment be approved to change the zoning designation from RA1 to CN to allow for future development of the property.
The Planning Commission reviewed this item at their October 14, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 4-0 vote.
*Note: After the Planning Commission Staff Report was written an updated property description was provided and reviewed which more closely approximates the size of the property to be rezoned at 1.23 acres rather than the 1.33 acres initially reported. This updated description is incorporated into the proposed ordinance.  The findings are as follows: For Approval:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment does not adversely affect adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For Denial:
1. The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan;
2. The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
3. The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone;
4. The proposed amendment adversely affects adjacent property; and
5. Adequate facilities and services do not exist to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type P.C. Staff Report 11/8/2021 Cover Memo Ord. #1508 11/12/2021 Cover Memo