MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY,
JANUARY 12, 2021, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST
PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH

PRESENT:                 Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green, Tasha Lowery,
                         Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey
EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Laura
                      Oscarson, City Recorder; Scott Cooley, City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore,
                      Human Resource Director; John Eining, Police Chief; Rhett Ogden,
                      Recreation Director; Christina Oliver, Community Development Director;
                      Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Britnee Johnston, Communications Director; and
                      Bob Wylie, Finance Director
________________________________________________________________________
This meeting was held electronically.
This meeting will be an electronic meeting according to Draper City Municipal Code 2- 1-040.

Determination 2020-25, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 52-4-207(4)
I, Mayor Troy K. Walker, do hereby determine conducting an electronic meeting of the Draper City Council
with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of thosewho may be present at the
anchor location and hereby authorize the Draper City Council to conduct electronic meetings without an
anchor location.

The foregoing determination is based on the following facts:
   • Federal, state, and local leaders, including the Draper City Mayor and City Council, have
       all recognized a global pandemic caused by the spread of the COVID-19 virus.
   • COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations in Draper continue to fluctuate at high levels, both
       of which pose a risk of overburdening the local health care system and health care
       providers.
   • It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the number of attendees at any meeting and to
       manage issues regarding social distancing in order to comply with state and local health
       departments' health orders.
   • COVID-19 poses a continuing and immediate threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
       Draper City residents.
   • The City has the technological capability to provide means by which the public may hear,
       or view and hear, the open portions of the meeting and to participate in public hearings.

To participate, please see the options below:

    •   Listen through the Draper City website - https://www.draper.ut.us/95/Agendas- Minutes.
    •   Email comments to public.comment@draper.ut.us. These will become part of the public
        record.
    •   Those wishing to speak during the meeting, send a request and include your name, address, and
        phone number which you will be calling from, for the Zoom meeting ID to
        public.comment@draper.ut.us.
Study Session

1.0   Presentation: Utah Transit Authority Micro Transit Pilot Program and 5-year
      Service Plan – Carlton Christensen

1.1   Carlton Christensen, Utah Transit Authority (UTA), said that from the beginning both
      Draper and Mayor Walker had been strong advocates for the micro-transit service that UTA
      was test piloting. Mr. Christensen explained that Jaron Robertson, a member of the
      Innovative Mobility Group, would first update the Council on the pilot’s progress. UTA
      was also in the process of updating its Five-Year Service Plan an and currently was
      receiving public comment on it. Mr. Christensen said that the plan will guide UTA on
      modifications and new elements to the transit service. Laura Hanson, UTA Director of
      Planning, would talk about the plan.

1.2   Mr. Robertson thanked the Mayor and Council. He reminded the Council that the pilot
      program started in November of 2019 and had just passed its one-year mark. The pilot was
      a public-private partnership with a company called Via. Via specialized in providing on-
      demand transit service. The goals of the pilot program centered on improved mobility.
      They include: (a) coverage-based transit; (b) provide first and last-mile connections to
      UTA rail stations; (c) improved customer experience and (d) improved operating
      efficiencies.

      Mr. Robertson noted the impact that COVID-19 had on the pilot program. He explained
      that during the first months UTA saw pretty significant growth in ridership and use of the
      service. However, in response to COVID, there was a decrease in ridership. UTA was
      able to implement improved cleaning and safety procedures and to make quick adjustments
      to the service.

      Mr. Robertson then highlighted some trends that emerged during the pilot. From
      November until March UTA’s on-demand service saw strong growth in use. By mid-
      March, the program approached about 500 trips per day, exceeding initial targets for the
      service. When COVID hit there was a 22.8% decrease in the service’s use. From April to
      September, people did return to service at an average of 16%. This was interrupted in
      October when there was a resurgence of COVID.

      Apart from usage, one of the highlights of the service was the Wheelchair Accessible
      Vehicles (WAV). This increased mobility of community members who were otherwise
      restricted. Whereas in November of 2019, the on-demand service had just 3 riders, by
      September 2020 there were 180 WAV riders. Another goal of the program was to increase
      the number of shared rides such that 30% of all trips were shared rides. The data indicated
      that they were on track to hit that by February. However, because of COVID, UTA self-
      imposed some limits as safety measures. This limited shared rides to three people per ride.



                                         Page 2 of 19
      He explained that until the agency decides to take away the limits on shared rides, they will
      continue to hover from 9-15%.

      Lastly, Mr. Robertson talked about the first mile/last mile (FMLM) connections. These
      are trips that start or end at a rail station. Before COVID half of the trips started or ended
      with UTA rail. This suggested that people were using the service as a connection for
      transit. He displayed a visual of the UTA service area compared to a plot of one day’s
      service data. This revealed how mobility changed from a fixed route service; trips covered
      the entire service area and created clusters around rail stations. The top two locations were
      the Draper Front Runner Station and the TRAX Daybreak Station.

      Regarding the next steps, UTA plans to extend the pilot through August 2021. UTA also
      intends to look at the flex routes operating in the service area. During the first course of
      the pilot, the on-demand service and flex route services were run side-by-side. This led to
      a drop in ridership on the flex routes. One of the flex routes was already suspended in
      response to COVID. UTA is going to investigate suspending the rest of the routes to be
      able to evaluate the pilot as a stand-alone service. Currently, they have an April 2021
      change day scheduled. Some additional features UTA hopes to add to the pilot are
      integration with the transit app and UTA electronic fare media. Also, UTA is looking to
      provide first and last-mile connections through its paratransit service. If there were
      paratransit customers in the service area, they would be able to use the on-demand service
      to help improve mobility for people with disabilities. Finally, UTA was doing some
      evaluation of how micro-transit can serve other communities by connecting to other transit
      networks.

1.3   Laura Hanson said that she was there to share with the Council a draft copy of UTA’s Five-
      Year Service Plan. She explained that the Local Advisory Council and the Board of
      Trustees would be considering the adoption of the plan in February. Currently, they were
      collecting public input from different stakeholders and partners.

      To begin, Ms. Hanson outlined what the five-year plan was and was not. UTA viewed the
      five-year plan as a vision and as a guide for what UTA thinks they will be doing in the next
      five years in terms of service changes. She stated that the plan was certain to change
      because there was a lot that was unknown about financial resources and new travel patterns.
      That said, the three goals of the plan were to (a) increase ridership and gain back riders that
      might have been lost during the pandemic; (b) strengthen customer confidence and (c) align
      services with resources to strengthen financial stability. UTA is thinking about 2021 as
      the time to stabilize its labor, workforce, and financial systems. Because of this, UTA is
      not thinking about implementation until 2022.

      Before diving into the plan. Ms. Hanson provided an overview of UTA’s planning process.
      Phase one consisted of strategic planning. This was the work of the regional metropolitan
      planning organization. The strategic plan is updated every four years and looks 30 years
      into the future about transit needs. However, the strategic plan does not look at the local
      level and certainly not at the micro-transit level. Because of this, the Five-Year Service
      Plan, or phase two, was necessary. It is at this level that planners look at the 30-year overall

                                           Page 3 of 19
structure and ask how local services fit within that vision. The Five-Year Service Plan is
organized as five rolling years and outlines what changes UTA anticipates making in each
of those time frames. In phase 3, operations planning, UTA takes the ideas suggested in
the Five-Year Service Plan and considers them for actual implementation. She noted that
the first step in operational planning was to meet with affected local governments. If UTA
has a service with a possibility of change, they make sure to ask local governments if the
change meets their vision as a community and then adjusts as necessary based on the
feedback received. Also, UTA goes through a public hearing process and a Title XI
analysis regarding the Civil Rights Act to ensure that changes are not disproportionately
impacting minority or low-income populations. The board has to approve the plan before
moving towards stage four, implementation.

Ms. Hanson explained that the Five-Year Service Plan was organized around a series of
guiding frameworks or principles. The first of these frameworks is service choices where
UTA reaches out to the community. UTA asked the public questions such as if they felt
UTA should focus on increasing ridership or coverage. Other elements of the plan include
system-wide planning. Ms. Hanson said that this was one of the first times that UTA had
pooled all of its resources into a single pot to think about how the service network was
working as a whole. As a result, some resources had been shifted from one mode to
another. UTA also talked about implementing a core route network. The idea behind this
was to have a series of bus routes of the best service, operating early in the morning and
late at night, seven days a week. Another change in the plan is a move towards all-day
service. The pandemic had caused a shift in ridership from peak periods to a steady all-
day demand stream. The service plan also explores new technologies.

Some of the highlights included in the plan related to Salt Lake County include:

       1. Improve service on the west side of Salt Lake County with new connections to
          the airport and Inland Port via 3600 West, 5600 West, and 3100 South.
       2. Improve frequency and hours of service on many routes.
       3. Implement a network of high-frequency core routes.
       4. Adjust local bus routes to prepare for future Midvalley Connector, 5600 West,
          and South Davis Bus Rapid Transit service.
       5. Improved connections to Rose Park and Glendale as part of the Salt Lake City
          Transit Master Plan.
       6. Improved connections from the FrontRunner to the University of Utah and
          Research Park
       7. Consider continued innovative mobility solutions like micro-transit in
          Herriman, Riverton, South Jordan, Bluffdale, and Draper in south Salt Lake
          County.
       8. Construct a new transit hub on the west side of Salt Lake City.
       9. Improve all-day service on many routes.

Ms. Hanson also expressed that UTA was planning for the future with expanded rail and
bus services, a cleaner fleet, and continued studies on transit patterns.



                                  Page 4 of 19
      Regarding the timeline, UTA expects that the Local Advisory Council and Board of
      Trustees will adopt the Five-Year Service Plan in February. Following this, UTA intends
      to reach out to different transit leaders, municipalities, and city staff to better understand
      community needs and what areas are growing. Information from the Five-Year Service
      Plan will inform upcoming operational plans and future implementation.

**    Councilmember Green joined the meeting at 5:53 p.m.

1.4   Councilmember Roberts asked if UTA had a sense of how many of the micro-transit rides
      were repeat users. He was interested to know if people were using it as one-off
      transportation or if there was a core group of users who were using it a lot.

      Mr. Robertson said that he did not have specific data offhand, but that they do see a lot of
      repeat users. He said that especially during the pandemic most riders were consistent users.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the right way to think about the micro-transit program
      was as the last mile/first mile public Uber. He wondered how to put the performance of
      the program in context.

      Mr. Robertson said that for UTA what they want to test is another mode of public transit.
      He said that they did put a big emphasis on the first and last mile connections, but they also
      want to make sure that they provide local and community service. If someone wanted to
      connect to a home to a library to a doctor’s office to a grocery store, that was an element
      that UTA wanted to be able to provide from a public transit perspective. That was the
      reason why UTA emphasized shared rides as opposed to going door to door unless
      someone required a wheelchair accessible vehicle.

      Mr. Christensen added that a couple of places that he would label as successes from the
      perspective of the board was the number of requests that were for wheelchair accessible
      vans. He said that one of the primary locations that people used the micro-transit to
      commute to was Walmart. The service supported a lot of folks in getting groceries. Also,
      it allowed many who were aging in place to still have mobility. He said that while UTA
      always loves high ridership numbers, giving folks mobility to access basic needs was a
      positive outcome.

2.0   Legislative Update: Representative Jeff Stenquist

2.1   Representative Stenquist said that he wanted Draper to know that he was available and that
      it was an honor for him to represent Draper again at the legislative session. He said that it
      was an interesting year all around. The legislative session was going to look a little
      different. Representatives would be COVID tested twice a week and would have social
      distancing measures in place changing normal public access. One of the silver linings was
      that there would be increased opportunities for people to participate remotely. The public
      would be able to join committee hearings and provide testimony. In the past, the public
      was able to listen to audio in conjunction with hearings and watch a video of floor time,
      but there was not a way for the public to participate.

                                          Page 5 of 19
Representative Stenquist said that one never knows what will pop up during a legislative
session. He did not know what the big controversial items would be this year. He did
know that there would be a discussion about the separation of powers between the
executive and legislative branches, particularly during times of pandemics. He said that he
did not think that the conversation would have a major impact on the current pandemic.
He said that by the time it is voted on, passed, and signed by the Governor, he anticipates
that they would be coming out of the pandemic. He said that one of the good things to note
was that last year after the budget was set, they came back in a special session and wiped
the budget out to the bare bones, and cut $850 million out of the budget. That included
several bills that had been funded and some that were not funded. As the pandemic has
unfolded, the revenue numbers did not end up being as bad as it was feared they would be.
Because of this, it looks like a lot of funding will be restored, and that there is a pretty
healthy budget surplus that has led to talk of a targeted tax cut that might happen.

In particular, there was a huge compromise, which was perhaps forgotten in everything
that happened in 2020, on Constitutional Amendment G to provide a more stable
mechanism for funding education. A lot of that money had to be pulled in the special
session. It was anticipated that it would take a few years to restore that funding. The
funding included a six percent increase in Weighted Pupil Units (WPU) and other money
that was promised for items such as raises for state employees. The six percent WPU was
a big commitment on the part of the legislature to fund education. Even though it was
initially thought that it would take a couple of years to restore, the legislature will be able
to do all of that in 2021, plus a $1500 per teacher bonus. He said there was a real
commitment to making sure that education funding was their top priority.

From a municipal standpoint, Representative Stenquist said that he did not know the big
things that would happen from a local government standpoint. He said that he was running
a couple of bills that have ties to local government. One of those bills was one where he
was working with the Governor’s Office of Economic Development to create a revolving
loan fund that municipalities could tap into for large regional infrastructure projects that
would be beyond their bonding capacity. He said that he did not know if there were
proposed projects in Draper that rose to the level to take advantage of that type of fund.

Another bill that he was working on was one for Ranked Choice Voting. It would force
Salt Lake County to support Ranked Choice Voting. Cities in Salt Lake County would not
have to go outside of the county to run their elections. He said that he knew that Ranked
Choice Voting was something that Draper had discussed. He said that Draper could go
with either Salt Lake or Utah County, but that he wanted Draper to know that cities in Salt
Lake County had the option. He said that as he has spoken with people, there weren’t
technological barriers to run Ranked Choice Voting elections. He said that regardless of if
someone liked that method of voting or not, it should be an option and not something the
county refused to do.

Finally, Representative Stenquist asked the Council if there was anything, they wanted him
to look out for regarding how to benefit shared constituents.

                                    Page 6 of 19
2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he hoped that Representative Stenquist continued to
      pursue the Ranked Choice Voting. He said that he also had concerns about the separation
      of powers and how it could impact a similar dynamic between the powers of the state and
      cities. He said that he hoped that Draper would be able to maintain its rights within the
      city regarding zoning because cities needed to be able to have a local voice.

      Representative Stenquist said Councilmember F. Lowry’s concern had been a topic of
      conversation for forever. He said that this year there was added pressure because of the
      skyrocketing cost of housing in the state. There was a lot of discussion around affordable
      housing and how to address the affordable housing issue. He said that it was true that one
      way, perhaps the primary way, to address affordable housing would be to build more units.
      However, it was cities, local governments, and zoning laws that had control over density
      and height. The state could either sprawl out or build up. He said that he thought that as
      land prices continued to get more expensive, there would be a push to go vertical and build
      higher density. Those decisions tend to come with a lot of push back, mainly from
      residents. He said that he felt that Draper could say that they had done their part in terms
      of providing adequate housing and doing so in a smart way in terms of where high-density
      housing was allowed to be developed; near transit and transportation corridors.

      Representative Stenquist highlighted his experience with local governments and that this
      was known by his colleagues. He also noted that several of the new representatives had
      local government experience and had served on City Councils. He said that he had hopes
      of being able to come up with solutions that prevented continued sprawl that put additional
      pressures on transportation and air quality. Overall, he felt they just needed to be smarter
      about development.

      Representative Stenquist noted that he had some new committee assignments. These
      included the vice-chair of the Economic Development and Workforce Services Committee,
      the Transportation Committee, and the Infrastructure and General Government
      Appropriations Committee. He explained that the Infrastructure and General Government
      Committee set the budget for transportation. Because he also served on the Transportation
      Standing Committee that addresses policy, he felt he was well-positioned to do a lot with
      transportation and look out for Draper’s interests. He said that he was also committed to
      continuing to focus on outdoor recreation. He reminded the Council that the Outdoor
      Recreation Committee passed a bill last year that was supposed to come up with a strategic
      plan and vision for outdoor recreation in Utah. This was one of the bills stopped due to
      COVID. However, Representative Stenquist was still the chair of that committee despite
      it not having any funding. He hoped that the funding would be restored this year. Also,
      he had recently spoken with Deidre Henderson about the Governor’s budget proposal.
      Although his budget proposal was more of a recommendation, he was trying to push for
      greater recreation infrastructure and grants that Draper City could take advantage of.

3.0   Discussion: Ranked Choice Voting




                                         Page 7 of 19
3.1   David Dobbins, City Manager, explained that the item had been added to the agenda to get
      a feel for if the current council wanted to pursue Ranked Choice Voting for the November
      election.

3.2   Laura Oscarson, City Recorder, said that the recorders from cities in Salt Lake County, as
      well as Salt Lake County Clerk’s office and the Utah County Clerk’s office, met yesterday
      with Kory Holdaway with Ranked Choice Voting Utah. Sherrie Swensen was present and
      said that Salt Lake County just signed the contract to get their new machines on December
      31, 2020. She was not sure when they would arrive and once they do, she will want to run
      tests to make sure that the software works and there are not any glitches. Because of this,
      Ms. Swensen was not able to indicate if Salt Lake County would be able to run a Ranked
      Choice Voting election in November.

      Mayor Walker asked if Ms. Swensen was able to provide any sort of timeline.

      Ms. Oscarson said no she didn’t. She furthered that as a city, Draper has until April 15th
      to declare that they want to participate using Ranked Choice Voting. The city would send
      a Letter of Intent to the Lieutenant Governor’s Office. She said that she was hopeful that
      Ms. Swenson would have an idea by March but that she came away from the meeting a
      little discouraged. Ms. Swensen was given funding for new machines last November by
      the County. These machines are capable of running an election using Ranked Choice
      Voting. Then the County decided that they wanted to have their IT people look at different
      machines which delayed the process by a month or more.

      Mayor Walker asked about the Utah County clerk. He said that it was his understanding
      that Utah County was willing to run an election by Ranked Choice Voting.

      Ms. Oscarson said that they keep getting different information from Utah County. What
      she heard was that Utah County was encouraging cities in Salt Lake County to form a co-
      op and the County would help that co-op run a Ranked Choice Voting election. It did not
      sound like they were willing to do the election. That information she was still not sure
      about.

      Mayor Walker asked if the Council wanted to talk about the concept of Ranked Choice
      Voting.

3.3   Councilmember Green said that he would like to do it.

3.4   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt as though the concept of Ranked Choice
      Voting was positive for Draper. She said that she was having increasing concerns about
      whether Salt Lake County would be in a position to execute the election and if Utah County
      would be willing to take on Draper.

3.5   David Dobbins, City Manager, said that if the Council wanted staff to pursue it, they could
      have those discussions with Utah County to nail down if they really can facilitate the



                                         Page 8 of 19
       election. He said that he felt that staff had been a little hesitant to go that far because they
       did not want to get too far ahead of the Council.

3.6    Councilmember Roberts said that he was supportive. He asked if the issue with the
       machines was that they were set up a certain way and Salt Lake County did not have the
       right machines.

3.7    Mr. Dobbins said that the county had already purchased new machines but that there was
       a software that went with the machines that the county had to verify was programed and
       safe against fraud.

3.8    Mayor Walker asked if there was anyone who wanted to talk about the concept of Ranked
       Choice Voting: what it means or if there were concerns about the change in the process.

3.9    Mr. Dobbins said that what he would recommend unless the Council felt otherwise, was
       that the Council add the item to their agenda and adopt a formal resolution to state officially
       that was the Council’s position.

3.10   Councilmember F. Lowry said that the Council needed to adopt a resolution to help Salt
       Lake County feel the pressure to move forward and get the system tested. He said that if
       they could get other communities to follow suit that would make a big difference.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that Riverton had already moved forward and adopted a
       resolution. She felt that if Draper also did so, they might see a lot more communities join
       in to help get the ball moving.

       Councilmember Vawdrey said that she felt that education about Ranked Choice Voting
       would be huge, too. She felt that Draper needed to have a plan on how to inform
       constituents.

       Councilmember Green said that he liked the concept of not having a primary election. He
       said that during the last two election cycles, people get really tired. He said that they were
       coming off of an awful four-year cycle that was contentious. To bring another election, it
       would be nice to give people a break until August where they do not have to see any
       political signs or rhetoric. He said that he felt that the community needed calmness for the
       next eight months.

       Councilmember F. Lowry noted the financial savings for the city and candidates.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said she felt these were both good points. Ranked Choice
       Voting made elections less contentious, encouraged people to be more positive towards
       one another and build relationships, and it did have a cost savings effect.

       Mayor Walker asked if the Council would like to put Ranked Choice Voting on the next
       agenda as a formal resolution. Councilmember Green said yes, please. The rest of the
       Council also said yes.

                                            Page 9 of 19
4.0   Discussion: Bond Payoff and Defeasance – Bob Wylie

4.1   Bob Wylie, Finance Director, said that he wanted to present to the Council an opportunity
      that Draper had to defease two bonds.

      The first bond eligible was the Sales Tax Revenue Bond was issued in October 2012 to
      refund the Bangerter Parkway 2004 bond and the bond for City Hall from 2002. The
      outstanding principal and interest amount are $3,170,400. With the Bangerter Parkway
      refunding included in the Series 2012 B, a portion of the defeasance would be paid for by
      the Draper City Redevelopment Agency (RDA) (approximately 35.3%). The remainder of
      the funding would come from the General Fund.

      The second bond eligible was the Municipal Lease Revenue Refunding Bond, Series 2016.
      The original Municipal Building Authority (MBA) Lease Revenue Bond was issued for
      SunCrest Fire Station. The outstanding principal and interest on the bond are $1,584,528.
      The funding for the defeasance would be appropriated from the General Fund.

      Mr. Wylie went over the financial impact the defeasance of the bonds would have on the
      city. The defeasance of the Series 2012B bond would result in an $84,865 savings in
      interest from now until the bond matured. The Series 2016 bond would have an $82,273
      savings. He said that those two savings amounts were not that much of a savings. But
      what he looks into is the future budgeting process of Draper City. The city was starting
      the Fiscal Year 2022 (FY22) budget process. If the bonds were not defeased, he would
      need to budget $747,803 in the General Fund for the bond payments and $286,400 in the
      RDA, almost a million dollars budgeted for debt service. Those budget items would extend
      until the bonds were paid off. If the bonds were defeased this year, then the $747,803
      would remain in the General Fund for operational budgeting and that $286,400 would also
      be in the RDA. The RDA project area entailed the West Bangerter project area. That
      would mean that in the next several years, Draper would have a new source of revenue for
      General Fund operational expenses that they would be able to budget for versus just having
      it in General Fund balance.

      Mr. Wylie then provided a snapshot of Draper’s outstanding bonds. At the end of FY21,
      Draper had seven outstanding bonds, totaling $19,691,000. If the two bonds were defeased
      the outstanding bond liability would drop to $16,170,000. In the next five or six years, the
      remaining bonds would also be paid off.

      If the Council approved to defease the bonds, Mr. Wylie would bring forward a resolution
      at the next council meeting to get official authorization for the city to act. The city would
      have to give 30 days’ notice to the bondholders and then look at closing the accounts around
      the end of February. He said that this was just one recommendation to use the General
      Fund and RDA balances to free up some of that cash for the operational budget going
      forward.



                                         Page 10 of 19
4.2   Councilmember Roberts asked what some of the uses would be for the new operating cash
      that would be made available by paying off the bonds. Mr. Wylie said that would be up
      to the Council.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the advantage were that instead of having one-time funds
      that could only be spent on one-time projects, the city would gain operating cash flow to
      use for recurring expenses. Mr. Wylie said yes, that would work.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the money could be used for ongoing expenses. He said that there
      had been discussion about the Fire Department and Public Safety pay scales. Those were
      ongoing expenses. He said that staff had not yet identified what the use would be, but that
      there were one-time funds now that would give the Council more flexibility to use the
      money.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if it would allow them to use one-time funds to finance
      the all-abilities park. Mr. Dobbins said that there would essentially be $750,000 of funds
      that could be used next year towards either one-time use or recurring expenses. He said
      that what he would recommend would be that since the amount dropped down to a quarter-
      million in three years that some of that money be dedicated to ongoing uses, but the rest
      go towards one-time uses such as capital projects or to save up for the all-abilities park.

      Councilmember Vawdrey asked if the Aquarium had been able to keep up with their bond
      payment through COVID. Mr. Wylie said that they had. He said that this month they had
      returned to making their full payment.

      Mayor Walker asked what the rate was that bondholders were getting. Mr. Wylie said
      about three percent. For the 2012B bond, the city would buy State and Local Government
      Series (SLGS) Securities and the CPA firm would verify how much would be needed to be
      dropped in there. The 2016 series was a callable bond. The city could just pay it off. Both
      mechanisms would allow the bonds to be taken off the city’s books and the bondholders
      would get paid the amounts through the callable period without a pre-payment penalty.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she thought this was a very proactive measure to take.
      The rest of the Council agreed and requested that Mr. Wylie bring the resolution before the
      Council next week.

5.0   Update: Engineering Projects – Scott Cooley

5.1   Scott Cooley, City Engineer, presented the projects that were completed in 2020 and the
      proposed projects for 2021.

         1. The first project completed in 2020 was the Highland Drive Widening from
            Bangerter Parkway to just east of Minuteman Drive. The stretch of road was
            widened from three to five lanes and a bike lane was added.
         2. The second project was Bangerter Parkway and Traverse Ridge Road
            improvements between Highland Drive and 13800 South. The project was milled

                                        Page 11 of 19
        and overlayed, was widened from three to five lanes, and was re-striped. Also, a
        new traffic signal was added at 14000 South and there were safety upgrades under
        the railroad bridge. Just east of Highland Drive there were access management
        improvements in the form of a raised median.
   3.   The city completed its first full-depth reclamation with the 300 East reconstruction
        from 11400 South to 11800 South. Mr. Cooley said it went well. He encouraged
        the Council to drive that stretch of road because the project went so well that staff
        plan on using the technique in places that it was practical and feasible throughout
        the city. He said that some of the advantages of the process were that from the
        beginning of construction from the milling of the pavement to when it was
        completed was only eight days. He said that normally it would be a two to three-
        month project. He said that was a significant impact on residents and those who
        needed access to the roads. Normally during a construction project, staff receive
        tons of complaints. However, with this reclamation project, they received a lot of
        praise from residents who were amazed at the speed of the project.
   4.   Because the 300 East reconstruction projects went so well, staff implemented the
        same process with the Oak Vista Waterline Replacement and Roadway
        Reconstruction project.
   5.   The fifth project completed, although a bit controversial, was the Traverse Ridge
        Road Storm Drain improvements. A detention basin was constructed off Traverse
        Ridge Road. The design required the city to design to a ten-year storm. There had
        been significant flooding issues that affected downstream properties. Staff looked
        at the opportunity to use the area as a detention pond to make the road compatible
        with the 100-year storm than a ten-year storm. The project will provide additional
        safety to an area that was located on a huge landslide. Mr. Cooley stated that
        Traverse Ridge Road and its utilities, particularly the waterline, were his biggest
        concern in the city. He added that there had been discussions about what the project
        would look like and explained that the area had been seeded and would grow grass
        to look more native.
   6.   The next project completed was the widening of Lone Peak Parkway. Two sections
        were widened from three lanes to five with the addition of curbs and a sidewalk.
        One section was widened from three lanes to four because the city was not able to
        secure the right of way on the east side from the landowner at the time of the project.
        However, there were ongoing negotiations with the Harberts. The project,
        however, was finished.
   7.   A traffic signal was installed at 13490 South and Vista Station Boulevard.
        Increased new development made traffic flow an issue. Mr. Cooley said that the
        staff was seeing more problems like this throughout the city.

Proposed projects for 2021 outlined by Mr. Cooley included:

   1. The first proposed project would occur at the intersection of 900 East and Draper
      Parkway. It is proposed to reconstruct the Draper Parkway pavement, complete the
      900 East frontage improvements (curb, gutter, and sidewalk, and upgrade the traffic
      signal. It is an RDA funded project.



                                    Page 12 of 19
2. It was also proposed to widen 12200 South and add a curb, gutter, and sidewalk on
   the north side of the street.

3. A signal would be installed on 450 East by UDOT. For them to do that the city
   needed to widen the south leg of the street. Mr. Cooley said that this would be a
   critical element for businesses and the new homes just north of 12300 South.

4. Next, there would be some intersection improvements at the intersection of
   Highland Drive and Vestry Road. A new traffic signal would be added. Also,
   Highland Drive would be widened with a curb, gutter, and sidewalk installed to
   accommodate turn lanes.

5. The next item, a HAWK (High-Intensity Activated Cross Walk beacon) signal at
   SunCrest Drive and Eagle Stone Way, was a project that Mr. Cooley wanted to talk
   about with the Council. He explained that it was a needed traffic control device.
   The staff did a study to determine if a full traffic signal was needed. The study
   determined that the HAWK signal would be best. A HAWK signal essentially
   allowed pedestrians to stop traffic with the push of a button. Instead of being a
   flashing light that warns, it stops traffic. Mr. Cooley said that the traffic committee
   had discussed the pros and cons of different traffic devices. Because of the high
   speeds on SunCrest Drive and there was a bus stop on the east side of the road that
   kids on the west side have to cross the street to get access to, the committee felt a
   more aggressive signal was necessary. The staff knows that some residents will
   not be happy about the change. He wanted to let the Council know in advance that
   there might be some push back from residents. Mr. Cooley said that they were also
   going to extend a trail so that people would cross SunCrest at the signal. He
   believed that Parks and Trails intended to extend the trail after crossing at the signal
   on the other side of the road.

   Mr. Dobbins asked if the Council was okay with staff proceeding with the signal.
   He asked if they wanted staff to go to residents first to get their feedback.
   Councilmember Roberts said that the signal was needed. He said that obviously,
   people did not like to have flashing lights in their homes, but he felt that the signal
   did a good job of mitigating the problem. He said that it was a needed signal for an
   area that was super dangerous.

   Councilmember T. Lowery said that residents had been asking for something at
   the intersection for a long time.

   Mr. Dobbins said that one element of the signal that he thought was nice was that
   the lights were only activated when there was a pedestrian present. In the middle
   of the night, the lights would not be seen.

6. Addressing the roundabout at 1300 East was also proposed. The project entailed
   adding a second lane in both the northbound and southbound directions and both
   east and westbound right turn lanes.

                                Page 13 of 19
   Councilmember F. Lowry said that last time he had heard about the 1300 East
   intersection the plan was to remove the roundabout and install a traffic signal. He
   wondered if this improvement was something that staff wanted to try first.

   Mr. Cooley said that what was perpetuating the possibility of putting in a signal
   was if in the future tracks came in and extended the tracks line across the
   intersection. If that occurred, then the roundabout would probably fail. Because
   there was a high probability that the tracks would not extend as anticipated, staff
   were recommending this as a long-term solution.

   Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Mr. Cooley felt that the roundabout would be
   as effective as a signal.

   Mr. Cooley said that that it would be as effective, if not more effective. He said
   that the roundabout would be preferable for non-peak hours. He said that it was
   possible to go to a metered roundabout that controlled the amount of traffic that
   could enter to be able to clear out some lanes that were getting congested.

7. The Deer Ridge Road reconstruction would be ongoing during 2021 as well.

8. Staff had begun outlining a pavement maintenance program for the coming year.
   The treatments would include slurry seal, mastic seal, crack seal, and spot repairs.
   The city had done a good job at treating its roads lately. He said that some of the
   roads highlighted would be treated for the second time since Mr. Cooley had been
   with the city. This indicated that the city was doing a good job at keeping up with
   road repairs delaying the need for full road reconstruction. He said that the road
   treatments would cost in the order of $2 million.

9. There was also a road reconstruction planned for 13200 South from 1500 East and
   Minuteman.

10. Two additional traffic signals would be added. One would be added at Bangerter
    Parkway and Vestry Road to address an expected increase in traffic due to
    residential growth and Pluralsight. The second signal would be added at 12200
    South and Lone Peak Parkway due to business development in the area.

11. A pedestrian refuge island was proposed at Traverse Ridge Road and Oak Summit
    Drive. There was a sight visibility issue at the intersection in addition to some
    vehicles traveling a lot faster than the posted speed limit. With the presence of the
    new SunCrest Park, the island would help pedestrians to be able to cross the road
    safely.

12. Improvements would be done at the 300 East Carlquist Road roundabout. A light
    would be installed in the center of the roundabout. Both the crosswalks across the
    southbound and eastbound traffic patterns would be moved back to meet

                               Page 14 of 19
              compliance. A crash barrier would also be installed between the southbound and
              westbound points to protect walls that keep getting hit.

              Councilmember F. Lowry asked how many times the walls had come down. He
              thought that it had happened at least three times in the last couple of years.

              Councilmember F. Lowry stated that it was unique to have accidents like that
              happen so many times in the same place. He asked if any commonalities had been
              determined.

              Mr. Cooley said that the biggest commonality was drunk driving. The last accident
              was a novice mistake: someone hitting the gas pedal when they should have hit the
              brake. He said he was not even sure if the driver had their license or if they only
              had their permit. Mr. Cooley said that it was unfortunate because he felt the
              intersection was pretty safe. However, to be on the precautious side, they were
              going to install the improvements.

          13. A possible project that might not happen because the design was only in its initial
              phases and not completed, in addition to the right of way acquisition negotiations,
              was the widening of the 300 East and 12300 South intersections. Staff received a
              lot of complaints about the area. The project would widen both legs to add a turn
              lane, making dual turn lanes in both the north and south directions. The north leg
              of 300 East would be widened to extend the right run lane. The pavement on 300
              East would be reconstructed. These improvements would greatly improve traffic
              flow.

6.0   Discussion: Residential Zones – Chickens – Christina Oliver

6.1   Todd Draper, planner, said that staff was preparing to bring an ordinance before the
      Council based on comments, they had received about the chickens for familial gain
      ordinance. Some of the things staff considered were to respect Draper City’s historical ties
      to the raising and keeping of chickens. Also, staff analyzed ordinances of 16 nearby cities
      and Salt Lake County. They found a wide variation in regulations between jurisdictions
      allowing between two and 250 chickens on residential lots (up to an acre of land).

      The current ordinance (9-27-005) allows for a maximum of six chickens, without
      consideration to lot size, in all residential zones. They are allowed for familial gain only,
      meaning that no sale or income from chickens is permitted. Roosters are not permitted.
      There are currently setbacks and sanitary standards for pens, coops, and run areas.

      The proposal that staff intended to bring forward would result in a reduction in the number
      of chickens allowed to five for smaller lots eight-thousand square feet (8,000 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 2 ). The
      new ordinance would allow for an increase of one chicken for each additional two thousand
      square feet (2,000 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 2 ) in property size above ten thousand square feet (10,000 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 2 ). This
      would provide for a maximum of 20 chickens. Regulations would be added allowing
      chicks and juvenile chickens (pullets) equal to 40% of allotment. Finally, the new

                                           Page 15 of 19
      ordinance would clarify the specific zones where the keeping of chickens is allowed: RA1,
      RA2, RH, R3, R4, A5, and A2).

      Mr. Draper displayed a chart of the number of chickens allowed regardless of lot size in
      nearby cities. They ranged from 50 chickens in Millcreek to just five chickens in West
      Jordan. He also showed examples of cities with a gradual increase based on lot size. Most
      cities were in the four to six number of chickens range. Holladay City allowed for 25-
      250+, but Mr. Draper did not think that they had updated their ordinance in a while.

6.2   Councilmember F. Lowry asked were 20 chickens came from.

6.3   Mr. Draper said that one aspect that he reviewed in writing the ordinance were some of the
      best practices. The best practice for raising free-range chickens was set at about 50
      chickens per acre. Mr. Draper said that if the chickens were for familial gain, then a home
      would already be on the property, at least half of the property would be taken up by the
      building itself. The remaining undeveloped property would allow for about 25 chickens to
      stay within husbandry best practices. That number was reduced a little to account for the
      setbacks for the coops and property lines.

6.4   Councilmember Vawdrey asked if Mr. Draper could show the Council the proposal again.

6.5   Councilmember F. Lowry asked why the Council was considering the proposal. He said
      that he recalled that Councilmember Vawdrey had asked that the item be addressed.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said that she had a resident reach out to her and say that the limit
      to the number of chickens was a hardship. In the meantime, she had spoken with a friend
      who worked at IFA who shared that they were going nuts to try and get enough chicken
      feed. She felt that chickens were something that people needed and wanted. The resident
      who spoke with Councilmember Vawdrey represented that their family needed the
      chickens as her husband was out of work because of COVID. She felt that Draper just
      needed to be reasonable.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if the city had been enforcing the current ordinance.
      Councilmember Vawdrey said that the resident in question was on a one-acre lot and
      restricted to six chickens. The resident did not feel that was reasonable. Councilmember
      Vawdrey said that she did not think that it was reasonable either.

      Mr. Dobbins asked if the item was scheduled to go before the Planning Commission on
      Thursday. Mr. Draper said the item was initially noticed for the Planning Commission, but
      that it had been pulled off.

      Mr. Dobbins clarified that it would go to the Planning Commission and then would come
      back to the City Council for formal adoption. He asked if the Council had any input now.
      He said that if the Council felt that it was too lenient or too restrictive, now was the time
      to give staff direction.



                                         Page 16 of 19
      Councilmember F. Lowery clarified that currently no rooster was permitted anywhere in
      residential zones. Councilmember Vawdrey said that roosters were a problem because they
      were noisy. Councilmember F. Lowry agreed and added so were hens.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if there was a point in which chickens became a problem.
      She asked if any research was done on that aspect. Mr. Draper said that it seemed everyone
      had a different opinion about chickens generally. He did look into the issue. He said that
      the question he looked into more was what the purpose of raising the chickens was for.
      Some city ordinances restrict the use of chickens to eggs only. Draper City’s ordinance
      did not. A lot of eggs could result from 20 chickens. At the same time, some residents
      with higher numbers might be raising the chickens for poultry.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked that if according to Ms. Oliver the ordinance had been
      enforced in certain areas, how many of those enforced would exceed the proposed
      ordinance.

      Christina Oliver, Community Development Director, said that the code enforcement officer
      had been working with a couple of property owners that had roosters. Staff actively pursue
      anyone who is breaking the current ordinance. She said that she felt that kids and families
      should be able to have more than six chickens depending on the area of a property. With
      the setback and sanitary standards included in the code, she felt that 20 chickens for egg
      production and a family’s ability to partake of the entire chicken, was allowed.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she likes the way that it was stepped to fit the different
      property sizes. She felt it was a good structure for the ordinance.

      Councilmember Vawdrey said that the problem before was that the same number of
      chickens were allowed for small and large lots.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that was unfair. She felt the ordinance was a good way
      to address the problem.

7.0   Council/Manager Reports

7.1   Britnee Johnston, Communications Director, said that staff wanted a resolution added to
      next week’s agenda to adopt a new logo. She displayed the logo that had the most overall
      support from the residential and employee survey. She explained that the color version
      would be the main logo with the black and white and grayscale versions as alternatives
      based on the application. Once the logo was approved, Ms. Johnston would develop a style
      guide that would explain when it was appropriate to use a color versus black logo. The
      style guide would be something that the Council could review as well. The city just needed
      an approved logo before she could move forward with the style guide. She wanted to bring
      the item up to make sure that there were not any additional questions or concerns before
      staff moved forward.




                                         Page 17 of 19
      Councilmember F. Lowry told Ms. Johnston that she had done an awesome, amazing, and
      patient job. He thanked her. He asked if it was necessary to have Utah on the logo. Mayor
      Walker said the answer was yes.

      Ms. Johnston said that she felt that it would be good. For example, outside Utah, people
      do look at the Draper City website. She felt like Utah could be removed from street signs
      because it would be so small that the word would not be seen. She said she could see the
      use/non-use of Utah on a case-by-case basis. She said that would be included in the style
      guide.

      Councilmember Roberts said that he wanted a white t-shirt with the black logo on it. He
      said that it looked so good. Ms. Johnston agreed.

      Mayor Walker said that for all the iterations and input Ms. Johnston got it turned out well.
      He said Ms. Johnston did a great job. He also thanked her for executing the second round
      of the Draper Deals and expressed that she did a great job on that, too.


Business Session

1.0   Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0   Public Comments

3.0   Consent Items

      a. Approval of December 8, 2020, and December 15, 2020, City Council Meeting
         Minutes
      b. Approval of Resolution #21-01, appointing Andrea Page to the Draper Youth
         Council Advisory Board
      c. Approval of Resolution #21-02, updating the temporary COVID-19 Pandemic
         Policy

3.1   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember
      Roberts seconded the motion.

3.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

4.0   Adjournment

4.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember Roberts
      seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.


                                         Page 18 of 19
4.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:14 p.m.




                                      Page 19 of 19
