Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky, AICP
CC:  Date: April 6, 2021
Re: Lone Peak Canyon Ninth Development Agreement Amendment Comments: The City entered into a Development Agreement with DJ Investment Group LLC and Wasatch Land Company on April 13, 2015. This Agreement covered the Hidden Canyon Estates, Mercer Mountain Estates, and Lakeview Heights properties.
The applicant is proposing a ninth amendment to the agreement in order to modify fencing standards. The Development Agreement requires a 6-foot wrought iron fence be installed adjacent to City owned property prior to a building permit being issued. The developer of the Lone Peak Canyon phase of Hidden Canyon Estates is requesting to allow a temporary chain link fence to be installed prior to building permit issuance, with the permanent wrought iron fence to be installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The previous phases of Hidden Canyon Estates were completed by a different developer, wherein the developer constructed all improvements and each home. The applicant has installed all public infrastructure, but is selling the lots to individuals who can build custom homes. Each new lot owner will be required to construct the permanent wrought iron fence when they construct their home. The purpose of both the temporary and permanent fencing is to prevent encroachment onto City property.
As a few of the lots have already been sold and are no longer under the control of the applicant, the amendment will also authorize the Community Development Director to enter into agreements with the new property owners to ensure they are held to the same fencing standards proposed in this amendment prior to issuance of a building permit. The findings are as follows: 1. The agreement will prevent encroachment into City owned properties while still requiring the wrought iron fence.
2. The development agreement conforms to Draper City Municipal Code and Utah State Code.  ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Res 21-13 3/31/2021 Cover Memo Ninth Amended Development Agreement 3/31/2021 Cover Memo Recorded Subdivision Plat 3/31/2021 Cover Memo