Coversheet
Item Coversheet MEMO To: City Council Meeting
From: Jennifer Jastremsky
CC:  Date: February 2, 2021
Re: City Initiated Windsor Mill – Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment Request Comments: This application is a request for approval of a Zoning Map and Land Use Map Amendment for approximately 0.302 acres located at approximately 11450 S 820 W. The property is currently zoned RA2. The applicant is requesting that the property be rezoned from the RA2 zone to the RM1 zone and the land use map be amended from Residential Low/Medium Density to Residential Medium/High Density .
The report that went to the Planning Commission called out the property acreage as 0.29 acres or 12,809.02 square feet. In preparation  for this hearing, the City's GIS team created the legal description for the ordinance. That description clarifies the legal boundary of the property, and there is an additional 568.35 square feet of land that is included in the requested area. The overall acreage is 0.302 acres, or 13,377.374 square feet.
The Planning Commission reviewed the request at their January 14, 2021 meeting and forwarded a positive recommendation on a 5-0 vote for both the zoning map amendment and the land use map amendment.  The findings are as follows: For approval:
1.  The proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will not adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  There are adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
For denial:
1.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with goals, objectives and policies of the city's general plan.
2.  The proposed amendment is not harmonious with the overall character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.
3.  The proposed amendment is not consistent with the standards of any applicable overlay zone.
4.  The proposed amendment will adversely affect adjacent property.
5.  There are not adequate facilities and services to serve the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems, water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection. ATTACHMENTS: Description Upload Date Type Ord 1477: Zoning Map Amendment 1/26/2021 Cover Memo Ord 1478: Land Use Map Amendment 1/26/2021 Cover Memo PC Staff Report 1/25/2021 Cover Memo